<!-- BEGIN COMMENT --> 

[<< Previous Chapter](CMAQ_Science_Ch_12.md) - [Home](README.md) - [Next Chapter >>](CMAQ_Science_Ch_14.md)

<!-- END COMMENT -->

Chapter 13 
===========

THE INITIAL CONCENTRATION AND BOUNDARY CONDITION PROCESSORS 

Human Exposure and Atmospheric Sciences Division 

Gerald L. Gipson· 

National Exposure Research Laboratory 
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 
Research Triangle Park, NC 27711, USA 

ABSTRACT 

This chapter describes the two processors in the Community Multiscale Air Quality (CMAQ) 
modeling system that generate the initial concentrations and boundary conditions that are required 
by the CMAQ Chemical Transport Model (CCTM).  The major emphasis is on the functionality 
incorporated in  those processors - the  initial condition (ICON) and boundary condition (BCON) 
processors.  The chapter describes how each processor can be used to generate initial 
concentrations and boundary conditions from one of two sources - from predefined default 
vertical profiles or from other CMAQ simulation results when model nesting is being performed. 
A description of generating initial and boundary concentrations for special tracer species is also 
included.  The procedures that are used in both processors for interpolating in both the horizontal 
and vertical directions are described.  A description of methods for converting initial and  · 
boundary concentrations from one chemical mechanism fom1  to another is also presented.  Finally, 
the manner in which each processor is applied within the Models-3/CMAQ framework is 
addressed. 

•Corresponding author address: Gerald L. Gipson, MD-80, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711.  E-mail: 
ggb@hpcc.epa.gov 

## 13.0  TlIE INITIAL CONCENTRATION AND BOUNDARY CONDITION PROCESSORS 

## 13.l Introduction 

The solution of partial and ordinary differential equations that arise in air quality models requires 
both initial concentrations (ICs) and boundary conditio~s (BCs). This chapter describes the 
Community Multiscale Air Quality (CMAQ) modeling system processors that generate these 
quantities.  In the discussions that follow, they will be referred to as the ICON and BCON 
prHcessors, re'specHvely.  The ICs and BCs generated by these two processors are used by the 
CMAQ Chemical Transport Model (hereafter referred to as the CCTM). For ICs, the CCTM 
requires that the concentrations of all model species within each grid cell in the modeling domain 
be specified for the start of the simulation.  Concentrations of all model species at the boundaries 
of the modeling domain throughout the simulation are required as BCs to the CCTM.  The 
e~~hasis in tiiis chapter is on how the ICs and BCs are generated rather than on how they are 

The ICON and BCON processors have been designed to process data as automatically as 
possible.  Users should be aware of certain operational assumptions that are employed by the two 
processors alldthe CCTM to insure that their applications are performed in the intended manner, 
however.  The discussion below begins with a brief overview of the processors and their 
re!ationship to the CCTM.  Several topics that address the various aspects of the IC/BC 
processing are then presented, including the input sources, spatial· interpolation, species 
processing, and mechanism conversions.  The last section provides a brief overview of how the 
ICON and BCON processors are applied. 

## 13.2  Overview of the ICON and BCON Processors 

II 

I!' 

The ICON and BCON processors generate ICs and BCs for individual model species, which 
include gas-phase mechanism species, aerosols, nonreactive species and tracer species.  The 
techniques for selecting and processing species data will be discussed in more detail below.  It is 
important to emphasize at the outset, however, that it is not necessary for the ICON and BCON 
processors to generate !Cs and BCs for every species that is being modeled.  The CCTM will 
attempt to extract I Cs and BCs for each species being modeled from the input files.  If a species is 
not found on the file, the CCTM will automatically set its ICs and BCs to a minimum threshold 
limit (i.e., a nominal zero).  Any data on an IC or BC file for a species that is not being modeled 
will simply be ignored by the CCTM.  Therefore, the user is encouraged to check the ICON, 
BCON, and CCTM output logs to insure that the ICs and BCs are being set in the intended 
manner. 

" " " '  

111111''1

1
' 

" 

• 

I 

The ICON processor generates species concentrations for every cell in the modeling domain, 
whereas the BCON processor generates species concentrations for the cells immediately 
surrounding the modeling domain.  At present, the thickness of the boundary cells is limited to 
one, which is the thickness required for all the transport algorithms currently included as part of 
the CCTM (e.g., see Chapter 7).  The reader is referred to Chapters 6 and 7 for a description of 
the CMAQ conventions used in establishing modeling domains and their boundary cells. 

Both the ICON and BCON processors write the output ICs and BCs to standard Models-3 
Input/Output Application Programmer Interface (I/O API) files:  3-dimensional gridded files for 
the ICs and 3-dimensional boundary files for the BCs.  The opening, formatting, and writing of 
these files are handled automatically by the ICON and BCON processors. It should be noted, 
however, that the IO/API has a limit of 120 output variables (i.e., number of species) for any one 
IO/ API file.  If the number of output variables exceeds the IO/ API maximum, the ICON and 
BCON processors will generate up to two additional files to hold the outputs.  If more than 360 
output variables are needed, however, code modifications will need to be made to the ICON and 
BCON processors and the CCTM to accommodate the additional variables. 

## 13.3 Input Sources 

The ICON and BCON processors generate IC and BC files from one of three input sources.  The 
first is a time invariant set of vertical concentration profiles.  The second source of input data 
consists of existing Models-3 IO/ API 3-dimensional concentration files, normally generated by the 
CCTM.  The final  source of IC and BC data involves the generation of special tracer species 
concentrations used to test numerical transport algorithms.  Each of these will be discussed 
below.  It should be added, however, that the ICON/BCON processors can be bypassed ifthe 
user desires to use a different method.  The only requirement is that the IC and BC files that are 
eventually fed to the CCTM must be standard Models-3 IO/API gridded concentration and 
boundary concentration files.  The reader is referred to 10/API documentation for a description of 
the structure and format of those files (EPA, 1998). 

### 13.3.1  Time Invariant Concentration Profiles 

This section describes the manner in which the ICON and BCON processors generate ICs and 
BCs from predefined, vertical concentration profiles.  The CMAQ system contains a set of 
predefined profiles that can be used to generate the requisite ICs and BCs.  These profiles give 
species concentrations as a function of height, and are spatially independent for the ICON 
processor and only minimally spatially dependent for the BCON processor.  Both the ICON and 
BCON profile data are time independent.  Since these data are not highly resolved, they are 
typically used when no other information about ICs and BCs is available.  It should also be noted 
that the predefined profile files can be replaced by user developed profile data provided that the 
replacement files are in the same format as the predefined files. The discussion below begins with 
a description of the predefined profile data, and is followed by a description of how the user can 
prepare replacement data. 

The default IC and BC profiles have been developed for the RADM2 chemical mechanism and the 
terrain following sigma-p coordinate system (see Chapter 6 for a discussion of CMAQ coordinate 
types).  Both the IC and BC profiles are intended to represent relatively clean air conditions in the 
ea's'~ern-half of the United States, and have been formulated from available measurements and 
r~,,Hlts ~~t2:~,5,~ frn,pi ~o~eH11~studies.  Thus, they do no~ represent any specific time period. 
~11*qpg~ J.Jro~!es for other chemical mechanisms and vertical coordinate systems are not currently 
avrulable in the CMAQ system, it may still be possible to use the predefined profiles for these 
cases.  Special procedures are included with the ICON and BCON processors to allow conversion 
from one vertical resolution and/or chemical mechanism to another.  These procedures will be 
described in sections 13.4.2 and 13.6, respectively. 

The predefined profile data are stored in ASCII files in the CMAQ system. Table 13-1  contains a 
listing of the CMAQ predefined IC profile file.  Note that line numbers have been added to the 
listing for reference.  The first three lines contain informational text that is not used by the ICON 
processor.  Line 4 contains the number of vertical layers and the number of species for which 
profiles have been developed, followed by the vertical coordinate values of the sigma-p levels. 
'11!,~ fifth line !,,§,,bl,~ and is ignored by the  ICON processor.  Lines 6 through 46 contain vertical 
profiles for 43 different RADM2 gas-phase species.  The species name is given in the first column, 
followed by mixing ratios (in ppm) for each layer.  The first entry for a species corresponds to the 
lowest layer, whereas the last entry corresponds to the uppermost layer.  Lines 4 7 through 52 
···cd'~iain an .. alogousI:nformation for key aerosol species.  The units for AS041, AS04J, and ASOIL 
are''j.tg/m3,  and the units forNUMAT.KN, NUMACC, and NUMCOR are number/m3

II•,,''''• 

• 

'"''"""" 

•""""""""" 

... 

,, 

1111111111111•'1 

'1111111111111' 

1111111111' 

11111111111111111111, 

1::;,11~ 

, 

I 

I 

Table 13-2 contains a listing of the corresponding predefined BC profile file.  The format for this 
fi~,~ i~ similar 12 ti?:,,!!~ ~or th~ I~, fil~, except that one set of profiles is input for each of the four 
different boundaries of the modeling domain (i.e., north, east, south and west).  The BCON 
pro'cessor uses"'"ihe appropriate set of profiles to generate the BCs at each edge of the modeling 
domain.  Again, line five is blank and is ignored by the BCON processor. 

,11 

111' 

I 

, 

I' 

As indicated above, the user can replace a CMAQ predefined profile file with one of their own 
provided the same file format is used.  As noted in the discussion above, none of the first three 
text lines nor the fifth line in either file is used.  Thus, those lines can contain any information or 
be blank, but they must be present in the file.  The remaining data lines are re.ad in FORTRAN 
list-directed format, so it is not necessary to align the data by columns.  The only formatting 
requirement is that all inputs be separated by commas or by one or more blanks.  The species 
names must not exceed 16 characters and must not contain any blanks. Also, it is not necessary 
that a six-layer vertical resolution be used, but at least one layer must be present and no more than 
30 are allowed.  Note that the number of layer heights on line 4 must be one greater than the 
actual number of layers used. These layer heights must correspond to the heights of the layer 
interfaces (i.e., not the mid-layer heights), and the first entry for any profile must be for the lowest 
level (i.e., ground-level).  The input mixing ratios, however, are interpreted as layer average 
values as opposed to values at the layer interfaces.  Finally, note that the BC vertical profile data 
for each edge begins with a line that contains the edge name.  Although the processors do not 
require that these names be specified explicitly, a line corresponding to the edge name line must 
be included and the processors expect the data for each edge to be input in the order shown in 
Table 13-2 (i.e., north, east, south, and west). 

### 13.3.2  CCTM Concentration files 

Both the ICON and BCON processors can be configured to generate ICs and BCs from existing 
Models-3 IO/API 3-dimensional, gridded, concentration files.  This situation typically arises when 
performing a nested model simulation and modeling results are available for a coarser grid. 
Unlike the predefined profile files described above, the CCTM concentration files are both 
temporally and spatially resolved, necessitating some additional processing procedures. (The 
subject of spatial interpolation is described in section 13.4.)  It should be added, however, that it 
is not necessary to use the ICON processor for a model continuation run (i.e., a run in which a 
model simulation is started at the exact same time that a previous one ended and the same 
modeling domain is being used).  In such cases the CMAQ IO/ API concentration file from the 
previous run may be used directly as the input IC file to the CCTM.  However, it will still be 
necessary to generate a BC input file. 

Since ICs are required only for the start of a model simulation, the ICON processor will generate 
ICs for only one time step.  BCs are required throughout a simulation, however, so the user must 
prescribe the period of record for which to produce outputs.  One set of BCs will be generated at 
each time step for that period ofrecord.  To illustrate, consider the case in which a model 
simulation has been performed for a coarse grid for a 24-hour period of record using  I-hour time 
steps (i.e., the model concentrations were predicted at hourly intervals).  The IO/API gridded 
concentration file for the coarse grid will then contain species concentrations for 25 time steps, 
one for the start of the simulation (i.e., the I Cs for that simulation) and 24 time steps 
corresponding to the model predictions at each hour.  Now assume that it is desired to generate 
I Cs and BCs for a nested model simulation for the same time period.  The user would select the 
first time step for the ICON output, and the ICON processor would generate ICs for that time 
step only.  For the BCON processor, the period of record for the output BCs would be obtained 
by selecting the same starting time and setting the duration for outputs at 24 hours.  This selection 
would produce 25 time steps on the output file, one for the start and 24 for each of the 
subsequent simulation hours.  The manner in which the time controls are set is described in the 
Models-3 User Manual (EPA,  1998). 

### 13.3.3  Tracer Species 

The ICON and BCON processors also contain the capability to generate ICs and BCs for special 
tracer species that can be used to investigate the accuracy of the various transport and diffusion 
algorithms available in the CCTM system.  This capability has been included primarily to facilitate 
the evaluation of alternative algorithms, and thus would not likely be used in most air quality 
modeling applications. 

ICs and BCs can be generated for eight different tracers.  Each one can be used to examine 
different properties of transport algorithms, and thus can be selected individually for output.  They 
are chosen by including specially defined tracer names in the list of model species.  The defined 
names and a brief description of each tracer species follow.  (Note that the I Cs for these tracers 
can be viewed with one of the visualization tools to examine the patterns more closely.) 

1111 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

ICl_BCO:  All ICs in the modeling domain are set to  1.0 and all BCs are set to 0.0. 

ICl_BCl:  All !Cs in the modeling domain are set to  1.0 and all BCs are set to  1.0. 

"" 

1111111 

" 

,, 

ICO_BCI:  All I Cs in the modeling domain are set to 0.0 and all BCs are set to  1.0. 

STREET:  Within any horizontal cross-section of cells, IC cell concentrations are set to 
either 1.0 or 0.0 such that the overall domain pattern resembles a street grid.  All BCs are 
set to zero. 

CHKBRD:  Within any horizontal cross-section of cells, IC cell concentrations are set to 
either 1.0 or 0.0 such that the overall domain pattern resembles a checkerboard.  All BCs 
are set to zero. 

SPOS_A:  !Cs and BCs are set such that a concentration mound is centered at cell (10,10) 
in the modeling domain, and the concentration profile is defined below. 

SPOS_B:  I Cs and BCs are set such that a concentration mound is centered at cell (10, 10) 
in the modeling domain, and the concentration profile is defined below. 

SPOS  C:  I Cs and BCs are set such that a concentration mound is centered at cell (10, 10) 
in the modeling domain, and the concentration profile is defined below. 

hs  = - - - - - - - - -
a2  +  (x-x/  +  (y-y/ 

a2 

( 13-1) 

The last three tracer species are designed for superposition tests of transport algorithms.  The 
b~e shape of the concentration mounds is described by the Witch of Agnesi surface:where a is 
the radius of the mound, xr and yr define the position of the peak of the mound, and h"' is the 
h~lght of the mound.  In the ICON and BCON processors, a is set to 3 and (xr, Yr)  to ( 10, 10). 

iii!!:"" 

·:111111!: 

I 

' 

•II 

13-6 

':11::::, 

1111 

The three tracer signals hA, h8 ,  and he for  SPOS_A, SPOS_B, and SPOS_C  are then defined as 
follows: 

EPA/600/R-99/030 

h  =q  (l+h)+q. 
A 
mm  ' 

max 

s 

(13-2a) 

(13-2b) 

(13-2c) 

where qmax and qmin determine the amplitude and background values of the signals, and both are 
set to 50 in the  ICON and BCON processor.  With these signals, the addition of mounds B and C 
will yield mound A. Thus, the degree to which hA  - (h8+ he) differs from zero in an advection test 
provides a measure of the nonlinearity of the advection algorithm. 

## 13.4  Spatial Interpolation 

Both the ICON and BCON processors are designed to account for differences in spatial resolution 
between the input files and the IC/BC output files on an automatic basis.  As described in 
Chapter 6, the CMAQ system is designed to handle different types of horizontal and vertical 
coordinate systems.  All of the data required to completely specify the horizontal and vertical grid 
structure are contained in three INCLUDE files that are generated by the Models-3 framework: 
COORD.EXT, HORD.EXT, and VGRD.EXT.  When the CCTM is compiled (or built), these 
three files are included with the source code, thereby providing the CCTM with all of the 
necessary information on the grid structure that is being used.  Both the ICON and BCON 
processors operate in a similar fashion, and thus both processors must be built with the same three 
INCLUDE files that are used to build the CCTM that will eventually use the ICs and BCs.  Grid 
information on the IC/BC inputs is extracted from the input files themselves, so no additional 
information is required for them. Note that either the horizontal and vertical coordinates for the 
input file may be of a different type than that for the output file, or they may be of the same type 
but have different extents or resolutions. 

· 

### 13.4.1  Horizontal Interpolation 

Horizontal interpolation is required when a CCTM concentration file  is being used as input to 
either ICON or BCON and the horizontal coordinate system of the input file  differs from that 
needed for the output file.  Such cases typically arise when I Cs and BCs are being generated for a 
nested modeling domain that has a finer resolution than a coarser, outer domain.  Note that no 
horizontal interpolation is necessary if both the input and output domains have the same structure 
or if the time invariant profiles are being used to generate the ICs and BCs. 

Disparities in horizontal grid structure are handled by mapping each vertical column of output 
cells to a corresponding column of input cells. The vertical concentration profiles corresponding 

13-7 

111111'" 

'11111111'"' 

' ' 

' 

' I 11 

: I 

, I 111 

11111111111 : : , 

11 
" ~ I 

' : • II , " 11,,  " 

" I ,, " ,  , " " " " , " " " " " " 

to the input column of cells are then used as the vertical profiles for the output column of cells. 
Note that some vertical interpolation may also be required as described in the next section.  The 
: horizontal mapping is done on the basis of cell proximity.  The ground-level latitudes and 
, longitudes at the center of each vertical column of cells are fust calculated for both the input and 
output domains.  These computed values are then used to find which input column is closest to 
each output column.  Since the ICON and BCON can compute latitude and longitude for any of 
the availE}ble CfviAQ map projections, the horizontal grid coordinate of the input and output files 
d~1•  n0i1 ha~·e 1i1~11'""1)~"1111fue same type. 

' ' " " " " " " '  

,,, 

'""""""' 

1
'',, 

' "  

" "  

11111111111

. ,  

"""' 

""" 

"  " , 

""' 

"' 

"' 

"' 

"' 

'' 

' 

' 

' 

### 13.4.2  Vertical Interpolation 

IQ,,some applications, the ICON and BCON may be required to generate ICs and BCs for a 
vertical grid system that is different from the one used for the input file.  The CCTM is capable of 
h2!14lin~, sev<:~al different vert~cal grid structures (e.g., sigma-p, sigma-z, pressure, etc.), and each 
'':·of those grid types can have different vertical resolutions (i.e., different numbers of vertical layers 
~t11111~iffer~11,! spacings with the same number of layers).  If the vertical structure of the input and 
output grids is identical (i.e., both are of the same type and have the same vertical resolution), 
then the processing of input data to output data is routine because of the one-to-one 
c~11!'.f~Sponden~~ o~the vertical !ayers.  If the "'.ertical grid types or resolutions,, are different, 
however, the ICON and BCON will convert from the input to the output vertical structure in 
most cases. Conversions from one resolution to another can be performed usmg either profile data 
orCCTM concentration files,  but conversions from one grid type to another can only be 
performed when using CCTM concentration files.  Both the ICON and BCON processors assume 
that the vertical grid-type of the profile data is the same as the required output structure, and thus 
no conversions can be performed in that case.  The two different vertical interpolation cases that 
can be performed by the ICON and BCON processors are described next. 

lllll111i1::::i11111;, 

~ 

' '   I, 

e" 

"""""' 

•II" 

""' 

," 

'1' 

e 

'" 

1 

lh 

" 

" 

" 

" 

• 

I' 

, 

11 

1'1'1·'," 

,:11111111:;:' 

1111::, 

Identical Vertical Grid Types, Different Resolutions.  When the input and output vertical grid 
types are the same but vertical resolutions are different, both ICON and BCON will derive ICs or 
BCs by linear interpolation using the layer heights contained in the input files and those contained 
in"ihe COORJ5.EXT INCLUDE file.  These heights are in the units of the vertical coordinate 
system (e.g., sigma-p, sigma-z, pressure, etc.) rather than height above ground level as measured 
i.qgistance unjJs sych as feet or meters.  The vertical resolutiqn of th~ input IC/BC data can be 
either greater than or less than the output resolution.  Linear interpolation is performed using 
layer heights that correspond to the middle of the layers.  Output concentrations are not always 
interpolated for the bottommost and topmost layers, however.  Output concentrations for all 
layers with mid-layer heights less than the bottommost mid-layer height in the input file will be set 
equal to the concentration of that bottommost layer. Similarly, output concentrations for all layers 
above the input topmost mid-layer height will be set equal to  the concentration of the topmost 
layer. 

Different VertlcalGrid Types.  A complete switch of vertical coordinate types can be carried out 
when the foll2,Yving  two conditions are met:  1) the input IC/BC data are in standard Models-3 

IOI API files and 2) the gridded 3-dimensional meteorological files that contain the mid-layer 
heights for both vertical coordinate systems are also available (see Chapter 12 for a description of 
these meteorological files).  When these conditions are met, the ICON and BCON processors will 
use linear interpolation to convert from one coordinate system to another.  The interpolation is 
performed in exactly the same manner as described in the previous paragraph, except that the mid(cid:173)
layer heights are taken from the 3-dimensional meteorological files which give the mid-layer 
heights in meters above ground level for both the input IC/BC data and the output IO/API files. 
Thus, the meteorological data files containing the layer heights in meters above ground level must 
be available for both the input and output grids before the ICON and BCON processors can be 
used. 

## 13.5 ICON/BCON Species Processing 

The selection of species that are to be modeled and thus require I Cs and BCs is controlled by the 
Program Control Processor (PCP).  A detailed description of that processor is contained in 
Chapter 15, and will not be repeated here.  A brief overview of some of the relationships between 
the PCP and the ICON/BCON processors is presented here to facilitate the description of species 
processing, however. 

The species that are to be modeled in a CCTM simulation are determined when the user invokes 
the PCP in the Models-3  framework to select a gas phase chemical mechanism, whether or not 
aerosols are to be included, and whether to include other nonreactive and/or tracer species.  The 
Models-3  framework generates four INCLUDE files that contain the names of all species that are 
to be modeled -- GC_SPC.EXT, AE_SPC.EXT, NR_SPC.EXT, and TR_SPC.EXT (collectively 
referred to below as the SPC INCLUDE files).  The Models-3 framework also allows the user to 
invoke special treatment of the I Cs and BCs for individual species by defining special surrogate 
names and providing corresponding scale factors for the calculation of I Cs (EPA,  1998).  The 
Models-3  framework generates four INCLUDE files that contain this information -(cid:173)
GC_ICBC.EXT, AE_ICBC.EXT, NR_ICBC.EXT, and TR_ICBC.EXT (collectively referred to 
below as the ICBC INCLUDE files).  Note that some of these files may not contain any entries 
depending on the user's selection, but all files will be generated by the framework.  Just as both 
the SPC and ICBC INCLUDE files must be included when the CCTM is built, they must also be 
included when the ICON and BCON processors are built. 

The SPC INCLUDE files contain the names of all species to be modeled and will therefore require 
ICs and BCs in the CCTM.  The ICON/BCON processors use the information in both the SPC 
and the ICBC INCLUDE files to determine which species data should be extracted from the input 
file and be subsequently written to the output file.  The ICON and BCON processors also include 
an option to convert from one chemical mechanism to another.  Since it represents a special 
option with its own unique rules,  it is described separately in section 13.6.  The subsequent 
discussion focuses on the treatment of individual species for two cases - one with and one without 
associated surrogate names. 

13-9 

Consider first the case in which a surrogate name is not specified.  This situation occurs when a 
model species (i.e., one whose name is included in one of the  SPC INCLUDE files) does not 
have a surrogate name assigned to it.  In this case, the ICON and BCON processors simply check 
to see if the input file contains data for a species with the exact same name as the model species 
name.  If none is found,  I Cs and BCs are not generated for that species.  If a match is found, the 
data for that species are extracted from the input file,  processed, and written to the IC and BC 
output files. 

The assignment of a surrogate name to a particular species complicates the processing slightly. 
Surrogate names in the CMAQ system arise at least in part from the generalized treatment of the 
chemical mechanisms and the fact that species names are not "hardwired" in the CMAQ system. 
1J1eir primary function is to link a model species with data that are associated with a species of a 
d~ffcwn~ 11:~.~·  T;,vo e?Cru:nples are p7esented to illustratepot~ntial uses. 

'"'I'' 

.·11: 

1 

,'",11

1111111111111 

' 

" 

' 

' 

11 

1 
' 111111 I I 1

' 11 

. " i 1 I I I 11 

. ' • ' ' • 

. ' ' ' 

. . • 

1 

• 

• • . . 

'  . 

1

. 

111 '  . . . ' . I I 

II " ' 

' 

' . 

~ ' " 

...  The first example illustrates how surrogates can be used to provide simple links from one species 
to another.  First, suppose a series of CMAQ model simulations had been performed using the 
CMAQ system standard RADM2 mechanism in which formaldehyde is named HCHO.  Thus, all 
of the data for that species will be associated with the name HCHO in the CMAQ system data 
files.  Now consider that a researcher wants to make use of that data but will be using their own 
version of the RADM2 mechanism in which formaldehyde is named FORM.  To use the older 
modeling data, the researcher could either change the formaldehyde name in the chemical 
mechanism to conform to the original RADM2 name or assign the surrogate HCHO for FORM. 
In the latter case, both the ICON/BCON processors and the CCTM are designed to extract IC/BC 
data using the surrogate name in place the model species name.  This will be explained in more 
detail further below. 

The second example of using a surrogate name illustrates how scale factors can be used with 
surrogates.  Suppose a researcher is experimenting with a new chemical mechanism which divides 
a particular species p AR Into two new species, p ARi and PAR2.  Further, suppose the researcher 
wants to  use existing CMAQ model simulations with the PAR species to generate ICs and BCs 
for both PARl and PAR2.  The researcher will assume that 25% of the PAR IC/BC 
c~mcentrations will be assigned to PARl and 75% to PAR2.  To effect this in the CMAQ 
modeling system, the researcher can assign the species surrogate name PAR to both PARI  and 
PAR2, and assign 0.25 to the ICBC scale factor for PARI  species and 0.75 to the ICBC scale 
factor for PAR2.  The ICON/BCON processors and CCTM will use this infmmation to compute 
the proper ICs and BCs for the two species PARI  and PAR2 from the input PAR values.  The 
procedures followed by both the ICON/BCON and the CCTM are described next. 

The introduction of surrogate names for IC and BC species affects the manner in which both the 
ICON/BCON processors and the CCTM operate. Consider first the processing that takes place in 
the ICON/BCON processors.  Each species in the SPC INCLUDE files is selected for processing 
individually.  If a surrogate name is assigned to that species, the IC/BC input files are examined to 
sec if the surrogate name is included with the inputs.  If the surrogate name is on the input file,  the 

13-10 

:,, 

"' 

1

11

11,'

1
' 

11111

'" 

data corresponding to that name are extracted from the input file,  processed and output under the 
surrogate name.  Further, the ICBC scale factors are not applied in the ICON and BCON.  If the 
surrogate name is not found on the input data file,  the ICON/BCON processors will then check 
the input file using the model species name as if no surrogate name had existed.  Again, if a match 
is found using the model species name, the corresponding data are extracted and output under the 
model species name.  If the input file does not contain any data under the surrogate name or the 
model species name, then no IC/BC data are generated for that particular model species. 

Now consider processing in the CCTM when surrogate names are used for ICs/BCs.  The CCTM 
processes each species in the SPC INCLUDE files individually.  If a surrogate name is specified 
for the model species and it is found on the IC/BC input files, the CCTM extracts the data for that 
name, applies the scale factor to those data, and then assigns the scaled concentrations to the I Cs 
and BC concentrations for the model species.  If the surrogate species name is not found on the 
input IC/BC files, the input file is checked using the model species name contained in the SPC 
INCLUDE files.  If data for that model species are found,  then the data are extracted and used 
directly as I Cs and BCs (i.e., no scale factors are applied).  If data for the species are not found on 
the input file, the ICs and BCs are set to the lower threshold limits. 

For most routine applications, users need not concern themselves with surrogate mapping issues. 
The ICON and BCON processors are designed to generate the appropriate ICs and BCs with 
minimal user interaction, provided the correct input files and include files are used with the 
processors.  Both the ICON and the BCON processors generate a species map on the output log 
that reports the relationship between the input and output IC and BC species. The user can check 
these logs to insure that the desired species mapping has been performed.  Further, the CCTM's 
output log lists those species for which the lower threshold limits are used, and these should be 
checked to insure that the ICs/BCs for an important species have not been omitted. 

## 13.6  Mechanism Conversions 

The vertical profile data and the CCTM concentration file data that were described above 
normally correspond to one gas-phase, chemical mechanism.  For example, the predefined, 
vertical profile data presently in the CMAQ system were developed for the RADM2 chemical 
mechanism.  The capability to convert from one gas phase chemical mechanism to another has 
been included in the ICON and BCON processors, however. It should be emphasized that there is 
not always a definite correspondence between chemical mechanism species, and it is usually 
necessary to make several assumptions to make such conversions.  This is particularly true for 
organic species that may be defined differently in two mechanisms.  Nevertheless, some simple 
mechanism conversion capabilities have been included for those cases in which approximations are 
acceptable for converting from one mechanism to another. 

A special routine to generate ICs and BCs for the CB4 chemical mechanism from RADM2 gas(cid:173)
phase mechanism inputs is included as part of the ICON and BCON processor options.  At 
present, no other "hardwired" conversion routines are available in the system, but it is conceivable 
that some C()l!ld b~ added in the future as more chemical mechanisms are added to the CMAQ 
s}'stem.  No conversion from CB4 to RADM2 format has been included because the carbon bond 
lumping technique makes it difficult to disaggregate mechanism species into their original 
chemical compounds.  For a description of these two mechanisms, the reader is referred to 
Chapter 8.  The hardwired RADM2 to CB4 conversion procedures that are used are the same as 
for the generalized conversion processor that is described next. 

11111111111' 

'' 

"" 

·,  '' 

'''''''''''''''''''' 

As a convenience for the user, a generalized mechanism conversion processor has also been 
included in both the ICON and BCON processors.  This conversion procedure requires the user 
to generate an ASCII input file,that contains mechanism conversion rules.  Thus, the user is 
responsible for defining how the mechanism conversion is to be performed.  An example file 
showing the conversion from RADM2 to CB4 is included in Table 13-3.  The file contains the 
lllllllllli' 
expressions that are used to convert the ICs and BCs from one mechanism form to another.  The 
I Cs and BCs for the CB4 species (i.e., those on the left hand side of the equal sign) are computed 
from the RADM2 species concentrations (i.e., those on the right hand side of the equal sign) 
according to the equations shown.  As is evident, there is a simple one-to-one correspondence for 
most species and lumping only occurs for relatively few species.  It should also be noted that no 
cgnvcrsions will!Je performed for those species that are not included in the input file, and thus no 
!Cs or BCs will be generated for them.  As mentioned previously, the user is advised to review the 
species map on the ICON/BCON output log to  insure that the conversions are being done as 
intended.  Finally, it should be added that the mechanism conversion option applies only to the gas 
phase chemistry species.  Aerosol, nonreactive and tracer species will be processed in the standard 
Wa.y, regardless of whether a mechanism conversion is being performed. 

lllllllli' 

·, 

• 

·1111 .. 111"''111"'" 

,, 

11111111111111'.,ll 

' 

"' 

,,,  : ' 

The format for the mechanism conversion rules is relatively simple.  Species names must be  16 
characters or less and not contain any blanks.  Only one species is permitted on the left-hand side 
of the equation, and the species name should correspond to a name in the output mechanism. 
The equal sign must be present, and at least one species name must appear to the right of it. 
Coefficients :for species are allowed on the right-hand side only, and they can be in either integer, 
real, or exponential format.  They must always be followed by an asterisk to indicate 
multiplication.  For expressions involving lumping of species, only addition is allowed and it is 
indicated by a plus sign.  Line-wrap is allowed so that a single lumping rule can span more than 
ope line~  E?~h ce>,vversio~ rl!,l~ myst conclude with a semicolon, and the last command must be 
"END;".  Finally, the input files are read in a free form input that generally ignores white spaces 
betv.·een species names, coefficients, operators and line terminators. 

## 13.7 ICON/BCON Applications 

This section provides an overview of how the ICON and BCON processors are applied in 
practice.  Applications are normally carried out in two steps: compilation (or building) and 
execution.  As mentioned earlier, when the ICON and BCON executables are built, the grid 
INCLUDE files for the modeling domain must be included.  In addition, the user must select four 
modules that determine the ICON/BCON processing routines to incorporate when the executable 
is built.  Two modules must always be present:  icon (or bcon in the case of the BCON processor) 
and ic/.  These two modules contain processing routines that are common to all applications.  One 
of the following three modules must be chosen to  include the routines to process the specific input 
source:  1) profile for using a time invariant vertical concentration profile contained in an ASCII 
file,  2) m3conc for processing a CMAQ 10/API concentration file,  or 3) tracer for generating 
special tracer species I Cs and BCs.  Finally, one of three modules must also be selected to control 
the mechanism conversion procedure:  1) noop for no mechanism conversion, 2) radm2  to  cb4 
for a CMAQ predefined RADM2 to CB4 conversion, or 3) us.er_ defined to process a user 
generated ASCII file (e.g., Table 13-3) containing mechanism conversion rules that are used to 
generate ICs and BCs for one mechanism using input concentrations for a different mechanism. 

The second step involves running the processors with all necessary input files assigned and the 
time control parameters set.  Both are provided to the processors by means of environment 
variables.  The input and output files are assigned by means of predefined logical file names.  The 
ICON processor requires a starting date and time in the Models-3 conventional time stamp 
format.  The BCON processor requires both a starting date and time and a run duration parameter. 

For detailed information on compiling and running these processors,  the reader is referred to the 
Models-3  User Manual (EPA,  1998). 

## 13.8  References 

EPA,  1998.  Models-3  Volume 9b:  User Manual, Draft EPA report, U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, N.C. 

This chapter is taken from Science Algorithms of the EPA Models-3 Community 
Multiscale Air Quality (CMAQ) Modeling System, edited by D. W. Byun and J. K. S. 
Ching, 1999. 

Table 13-1.  CMAQ Predefined Vertical Profiles for Initial Concentrations 

47 

1.00  0.98  0.93  0.84  0.60  0.30  0.00 

layers  and  defined  sigma  levels  are  listed  below. 

l  Optional  boundary  condition:  The  vertical  coordinate  of  the  model  to 
2  "generate  i:Eese  b.c.  is  the  terrain-following  sigma  coordinate.  The  number  of 
3  sigma 
4  i 
5 
6  S02 
7  SULF 
8  N02 
9  NO 
10  03 
11  "'HNo3 
12  H202 
13  ALD 
14  HCHO 
15  OPl 
16  OP2 
17  PAA 
18  ORAl 
19  ORA2 
20  NH3 
21  N205 
22  N03 
l?AN 
23 
24  HC3 
25  HC5 
2G  HCS 
27  ETH 
28  co 
29  OL2 
30  OLT 
31  OLI 
32  TOL 
33  XYL 
34  AC03 
35  TPAN 
36  HONO 
37  HN04 
38  KET 
39  GLY 
40  MGLY 
41  DCB 
42  ONIT 
43  CSL 
44  ISO 
45  HO 
46  H02 
47  AS04I 
48  AS04J 
49  NUMATKN 

0.300E-03  0.200E-03  O.lOOE-03  O.lOOE-03  0.200E-04  O.lOOE-04 
0.150E-03  O.l50E-03  O.lOOE-03  O.lOOE-03  0.200E-04  O.lOOE-04 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.200E-04  0.200E-04  O.lOOE-04 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.200E-04  0.200E-04  O.lOOE-04 
0.700E-01 
6.i50~-01  0.350E-01  0.400E-01 
'6.560E-o4'  0.500E-04  0.500E-04 
O.lOOE-03 
0.200E-03 
0.100E-02  O.lOOE-02  0.150E-02 
· '"''o. 3"'ooE-o4  o. 35'0J::-04  o. 300E-04 
O.lOOE-04 
0.250E-03 
0.500E-04 
0.250E-03 
0.500E-07 
0.250E-06 
0.250E-06 
0.300E-07 
O.lOOE-07 
0.300E-07 
0.150E-04 
0.300E-04 
0.300E-04 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.500E-06 
O.lOOE-05 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.500E-06 
O.lOOE-05 
0.300E-04 
O.lOOE-04 
O.lOOE-03 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
o.OboE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.lOOE-04 
0.200E-04 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.320E-04 
0.400E-04 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.320E-04 
0.400E-04 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.160E-04 
0.200E-04 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.000E+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.500E-01 
0.800E-01 
0.800E-01 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.200E-05 
0.500E-05 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.lOOE-06 
0.200E-06 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.lOOE-06 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.lOOE-05 
O.lOOE-05 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.lOOE-06 
0.200E-06 
O.lOOE-08 
O.lOOE-08 
O.lOOE-08 
O.lOOE-07 
O.lOOE-07 
O.lOOE-07 
O.lOOE-08 
O.lOOE-08 
O.lOOE-08 
0.200E-08 
0.200E-08 
0.200E-08 
· 'o. 3"'ooE-o4 
0.300E-04 
O.lOOE-04 
0.500E-07 
0.2SOE-06 
0.250E-06 
0.250E-06 
0.500E-07 
0.250E-06 
0.250E-06 
0.500E-07 
0.250E-06 
0.160E-04 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.200E-04 
O.lOOE-08 
O.lOOE-08 
O.lOOE-08 
0.250E-05 
0.250E-05 
0.250E-05 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
1. 603E-02 
l.603E-03 
4.SlOE-02 
3.848E-02 
3.848E-01 
l.154E+OO 
4.791E+09 
4.791E+08 
1.437E+10 

O.OOOE+OO  O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO  O.OOOE+OO 
0.500E-01  0.600E-01 
0.500E-04  0.700E-04 
O.lOOE-02  0.800E-03 
o.26dE-04"  o.2ooi~o4 
0.200E-03 
O.lOOE-03 
O.lOOE-06 
0.200E-06 
0.200E-07 
0.200E-07 
0.200E-04 
0.250E-04 
0.500E-06 
0.500E-06 
0.500E-06 
0.500E-06 
0.200E-04 
0.200E-04 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.lOOE-04 
O.lOOE-04 
0.120E-04 
0.400E-05 
0.120E-04 
0.400E-05 
0.600E-05 
0.200E-05 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.650E-01 
0.700E-01 
O.lOOE-05 
O.lOOE-05 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.lOOE-05 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.lOOE-08 
O.lOOE-08 
O.lOOE-07 
O.lOOE-07 
O.lOOE-08 
O.lOOE-08 
0.200E-08 
0.200E-08 
0.200E-04 
0.200E-04 
0.200E-06 
O.lOOE-06 
0.200E-06 
O.lOOE-06 
0.200E-06 
O.lOOE-06 
0.200E-05 
0.600E-05 
O.lOOE-08 
O.lOOE-08 
0.250E-05 
0.250E-05 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
3.207E-03 
l.603E-02 
7.696E-02 
3.848E-Ol 
4.791E+09 
9.583E+OB 

0.250E-03 
0.250E-06 
0.350E-07 
0.300E-04 
O.lOOE-05 
O.lOOE-05 
O.lOOE-03 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.200E-04 
0.400E-04 
0.400E-04 
0.200E-04 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.800E-01 
0.300E-05 
0.200E-06 
O.lOOE-06 
O.lOOE-05 
0.200E-06 
O.lOOE-08 
O.lOOE-07 
O.lOOE-08 
0.200E-08 
0.350E-04 
o.250E-o6 
0.250E-06 
0.250E-06 
0.200E-04 
O.lOOE-08 
0.250E-05 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
3.207E-02 
7.696E-01 
9.583E+09 

111111111 

1 

.II"" 

11111'"' 

11' 

h' 

13-14 

Table 13-1.  CMAQ Predefined Vertical Profiles for Initial Concentrations 

50  NUMACC 
51  ASOIL 
52  NUMCOR 

l.370E+08  2.740E+07  1.370E+07 
4.110E+08  2.740E+08  1.370E+08 
1.000E+OO  8.000E-01  4.000E-01  4.000E-01  8.000E-02  4.000E-02 
1.740E+04 
l.392E+03  6.960E+02 

l.392E+04  6.960E+03  6.960E+03 

EPA/600/R-99/030 

13-15 

Table  13-2.  CMAQ Predefined Vertical Profiles for Boundary Conditions 

: 11111 i : I i : I :  i . .  ' 

' ' ' 

' , , 

:  111111:: 

11: 

" ,  

, 

I : ; ' I ~ 11 i : : : : ~ : : 

..  •1111111111: 

' ! 11 I : I :I ii 11 :I : : 
:""!I  I: 

' 

' 

. 

' 

·· 

' ' " I i 
, 

: ' " '  . ' 
r. 

...... :•, 

··· 

' 

' 

" '  .  ' ' 
, 

" :  ' I ! 1, 
,  1111, 

:11 ·1 i : : " ' ' ' ' i  : ' 
·:!::::l,. 1

111111· 

,1 

. ' ' : 

. 

.. •••· 

. 

· 

,, 

47 

1  Optional  boundary  condition:  The  vertical  coordinate  of  the  model  to 
2  generate  these  b.c.  is  the  terrain-following  sigma  coordinate.  The  number  of 
3  sigma  layers  and  defined  sigma  levels  are  listed  below. 
4  6 
s 
6  North 
7 
a  S02 
51  SULF 

1.00  0.98  0.93  0.84  0.60  0.30  0.00 

''11111111 

'1 111111·1, 

111111111:·1:, 

111111,. 

" 

1111 

I 

"'' 

111111111111111 

111::,,111!"' 

!11111!""111'' 

10  N02 
11  NO 
12  03 
13  HN03 
14  H202 
15  ALD 
16  HCHO 
17  OP1 
ie  OP2 
151  PAA 
20  ORA1 
21  ORA2 
22  NH3 
:n  N205 
24  N03 
25  PAN 
26  HC3 
27  HCS 
28 'iics 
29  ETH 
30  co 
31  OL2 
32  OLT 
33  OLI 
34  TOL 
35  XYL 
36  AC03 
37  TPAN 
38  HONO 
39  HN04 
40  KET 
41  GLY 
42  MGLY 
43  DCB 
1 0NIT 
44
45  CSL 
46  ISO 
47  .~o 
48  H02 

11111111111· 

'" 

"" 

" 

" 

1
""

Ill'' 

1
111111

1111111111111 

1
11111111 

''"''"""'""' 

l1u1lllllll" 

•111111111" 

0.300E-03 
0.1SOE-03 
0.200E-04 
0.200E-04 
0.350E-01 
0.500E-04 
0.100E-02 
0.300E-04 
0.250E-03 
0.250E-06 
0.300E-07 
"'o.300E-04 
0.100E-05 
0.100E-OS 
0.100E-03 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.200E-04 
0.400E-04 
0.400E-04 
· .,,  o. 2ooE-o4 
O.OOOE+OO 
11111""0. efOoE-01 
0.500E-05 
0.200E-06 
0.100E-06 
0.100E-05 
0.200E-06 
0.100E-08 
0.100E-07 
O.lOOE-08 
0.200E-08 
0.300E-04 
0.250E-06 
, .. 
,,,  o. '.iso:E-06 
o.2soE-06 
o.2ooE:-o4 
····  o. iooE-00 
0.2SOE-05 
O.OOOE+OO 
.OOOE+OO 

""

I· 

0.2aoE-03  O.lOOE-03 
O.lSOE-03  0.100E-03 
0.lOOE-04 
0.200E-04 
0.200E-04 
O.lOOE-04 
0.400E-01 
0.350E-01 
O.SOOE-04 
O.SOOE-64 
O.lSOE-02 
O.lOOE-02 
0.300E-04 
0.350E-04 
0.2SOE-03 
0.2SOE-03 
0.250E-06 
o.2sCJE-06 
o. '3soE-07 
o.3ooE-o7 
0.300E-04 
0.30ciE-04 
O.SOOE-06 
O.lOOE-05 
O.lOOE-05 
O.SOOE-06 
0.100E-03 
0.300E-04 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.iOOE-04 
o::.fodE-04 
0.400E-04 
0.320E-04 
0.320E-04 
0.400E-04 
0.160E-04 
0.200E-04 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.800E-01 
O.SOOE-01 
0.200E-05 
0.300E-05 
O.lOOE-06 
0.200E-06 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.lOOE-06 
0.100E-OS 
O.lOOE-05 
0.100E-06 
0.200E-06 
O.lOOE-08 
O.lOOE-08 
O.lOOE-07 
O.lOOE-07 
O.lOOE-08 
O.lOOE-08 
0.200E-08 
0.200E-08 
0.300E-04 
0.350E-04 
0.2SOE-06 
0.250E-06 
0.2SOE-06 
0.250E-06 
0.250E-06 
0.2SOE-06 
0.160E-04 
0.200E-04 
O.lOOE-08 
O.lOOE-08 
0.2SOE-OS 
0.2SOE-OS 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 

d.~6oE-o3"  o.200E-04 
O.lOOE-03  0.200E-04 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.600E-Ol 
0.500E-01 
O.SOOE-04 
0.700E-04 
O.lOOE-02 
0.800E-03 
0.200E-04 
0.200E-04 
0.200E-03  O.lOOE-03 
o.26bE~o~  6.1ob~-06 
0.200E-07- 0.20bi-07 
0.250E-04  0.200E-04 
O.SOOE-06  O.SOOE-06 
O.SOOE-06  O.SOOE-06 
0.200E-04 
0.200E-04 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.lOOE-04 
O.lOOE-04 
0.120E-04 
0.400E-OS 
0.400E-05 
0.120E-04 
0.600E-05 
0.200E-05 
O.OOOE+OO  O.OOOE+OO 
0. 700E-Oi  ........  0. 6 SOE- 01 
O.lOOE-05  O.lOOE-05 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.lOOE-05 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.lOOE-08 
O.lOOE-08 
O.lOOE-07 
O.lOOE-07 
O.lOOE-08 
O.lOOE-08 
0.200E-08 
0.200E-08 
0.200E-04 
0.200E-04 
O.lOOE-06 
0.200E-06 
O.lOOE-06 
0.200E-06 
0.100E-06 
0.200E-06 
0.600E-05 
0.200E-05 
O.lOOE-08 
O.lOOE-08 
0.250E-OS 
0.2SOE-05 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 

O.lOOE-04 
0.100E-04 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.700E-01 
O.lOOE-03 
0.200E-03 
O.lOOE-04 
O.SOOE-04 
O.SOOE-07 
O.lOOE-07 
O.lSOE-04 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.lOOE-04 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.SOOE-01 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.lOOE-08 
O.lOOE-07 
O.lOOE-08 
0.200E-08 
O.lOOE-04 
O.SOOE-07 
O.SOOE-07 
O.SOOE-07 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.lOOE-08 
0.250E-05 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 

• 

II 

13-16 

'1111' 

111111, 

i!lllllli 

1111111" 

"Ill!!:::::, 

111 


Table 13-2.  CMAQ Predefined Vertical Profiles for Boundary Conditions 

49  AS04I 
50  AS04J 
51  NUMATKN 
52  NUMACC 
53  ASOIL 
54  NUMCOR 
55  East 

2.405E-02 
S.772E-01 
7.187E+09 
2.0SSE+08 
S.OOOE-01 
8.7SOE+03 

2.405E-02 
5.772E-01 
7.187E+09 
2.055E+08 
5.000E-01 
8.7SOE+03 

1.603E-02 
3.848E-01 
4.791E+09 
1.370E+08 
4.000E-01 
7.000E+03 

1. 603E-02 
3.848E-Ol 
4.791E+09 
l.370E+08 
4.000E-01 
7.000E+03 

3.207E-03 
7.696E-02 
9.583E+08 
2.740E+07 
8.000E-01 
1. 400E+03 

1.603E-03 
3.848E-02 
4.791E+08 
l.370E+07 
3.000E-01 
5.2SOE+02 

56 
57  S02 
58  SULF 
59  N02 
60  NO 
61  03 
62  HN03 
63  H202 
64  ALD 
65  HCHO 
66  OP1 
67  OP2 
68  PAA 
69  ORA1 
70  ORA2 
71  NH3 
72  N205 
73  N03 
74  PAN 
75  HC3 
76  HCS 
77  HC8 
78  ETH 
79  co 
00  OL2 
81  OLT 
82  OLI 
83  TOL 
84  XYL 
85  AC03 
86  TPAN 
87  HONO 
88  HN04 
89  KET 
90  GLY 
91  MGLY 
92  DCB 
93  ONIT 
94  CSL 
95  ISO 
96  HO 
97  H02 

O.OOOE+OO 
0.200E-03 
0.100E-04 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.300E-01 
O.SOOE-04 
0.200E-02 
0.400E-04 
0.250E-03 
0.250E-06 
0.400E-07 
O.SOOE-04 
0.150E-05 
0.150E-05 
O.SOOE-04 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.100E-04 
0.120E-04 
0.120E-04 
0.600E-05 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.800E-Ol 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.lOOE-08 
O.lOOE-07 
O.lOOE-08 
0.200E-08 
0.400E-04 
0.2SOE-06 
0.250E-06 
0.250E-06 
0.600E-05 
O.lOOE-08 
0.250E-05 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 

O.OOOE+OO 
0.200E-03 
O.lOOE-04 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.350E-01 
O.SOOE-04 
0.200E-02 
0.400E-04 
0.250E-03 
0.250E-06 
0.400E-07 
O.SOOE-04 
O.SOOE-06 
O.SOOE-06 
O.SOOE-04 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.lOOE-04 
0.120E-04 
0.120E-04 
0.600E-05 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.BOOE-01 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.lOOE-08 
O.lOOE-07 
O.lOOE-08 
0.200E-08 
0.400E-04 
0.250E-06 
0.250E-06 
0.250E-06 
0.600E-05 
O.lOOE-08 
0.250E-05 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 

O.OOOE+OO 
0.200E-03 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.400E-01 
O.SOOE-04 
0.200E-02 
0.400E-04 
0.250E-03 
0.250E-06 
0.400E-07 
O.SOOE-04 
O.SOOE-06 
O.SOOE-06 
O.SOOE-04 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.lOOE-04 
0.120E-04 
0.120E-04 
0.600E-05 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.BOOE-01 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.lOOE-08 
O.lOOE-07 
O.lOOE-08 
0.200E-08 
0.400E-04 
0.250E-06 
0.250E-06 
0.250E-06 
0.600E-05 
O.lOOE-08 
0.250E-05 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 

13-17 

O.OOOE+OO 
0.200E-03 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.SOOE-01 
O.SOOE-04 
0.200E-02 
0.400E-04 
0.200E-03 
0.200E-06 
0.400E-07 
O.SOOE-04 
O.SOOE-06 
O.SOOE-06 
0.200E-04 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.lOOE-04 
0.800E-05 
0.800E-05 
0.400E-05 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.750E-01 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.lOOE-08 
O.lOOE-07 
O.lOOE-08 
0.200E-08 
0.400E-04 
0.200E-06 
0.200E-06 
0.200E-06 
0.400E-05 
O.lOOE-08 
0.250E-05 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 

O.OOOE+OO 
0.200E-04 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.600E-01 
O.SOOE-04 
O.lSOE-02 
0.400E-04 
O.lSOE-03 
0.150E-06 
0.400E-07 
O.SOOE-04 
O.SOOE-06 
O.SOOE-06 
0.200E-04 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.lOOE-04 
0.400E-05 
0.400E-05 
0.200E-05 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.700E-01 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.lOOE-08 
O.lOOE-07 
O.lOOE-08 
0.200E-08 
0.400E-04 
0.150E-06 
0.150E-06 
O.lSOE-06 
0.200E-05 
O.lOOE-08 
0.250E-05 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 

O.OOOE+OO 
O.lOOE-04 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.700E-01 
O.lSOE-03 
0.150E-02 
0.400E-04 
O.lOOE-03 
0.100E-06 
0.400E-07 
O.SOOE-04 
O.SOOE-06 
O.SOOE-06 
0.200E-04 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.lOOE-04 
0.400E-05 
0.400E-05 
0.200E-05 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.650E-01 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.lOOE-08 
O.lOOE-07 
O.lOOE-08 
0.200E-08 
0.400E-04 
O.lOOE-06 
O.lOOE-06 
O.lOOE-06 
0.200E-05 
0.100E-08 
0.250E-05 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 

Table 13-2. '"'cM.AQ Predefined Vertical Profiles for Boundary Conditions 
. 

. 

-

.~1"g'1Ei-cl2  3.2o7E-02  3.207E-02  3.2o7E-02  3.207E-03 

l..603E-03 
7.696E-01  7.696E-01  7.696E-01  7.696E:..01  7.696E-02  3.848E-02 
4.791E+08 
9.583E+09 
1.370E+07 
2.740E+08 
8.000E-01 
4.000E-02 
1.392E+04  1.392E+04  1.392E+04  1.392E+04  1.392E+03  6.960E+02 

9.583E+09  9.583E+09  9.583E+09  9.583E+08 
2.740E+08  2.740E+08  2.740E+08  2.740E+07 
8.000E-01  8.000E-01  8~000E-01  ~.oo6E~02 

El> A/600/R-99/030 

f'" 

'" 

,

11

98  ~04I' 
99  AS04J 
100  NUMATKN 
101  ~c:c 
102  ASOIL 
103  NU?-~COR 
104  South 

,,,,.  105 
J.06 

1111111111111 

' 

.. ~02 
···  107  SULF 

'1::  116 
117 
118 
Iii  119 

11111111: 

:111111111:,, 

'1::::11111111,, 

,,,  11;,, 

108  N02 
109  NO 
110  03 
111  HN03 
112  :H202 
113  ALD 
114  HCHO 
115  OPl 
OP2 
PAA 
ORAl 
'111111111111 ORJ\2 
NH3 
N205 

120 
121 
122  N03 
123  PAN 
124  HC3 
12s  HCS 
126  HCS 
127  ETH 
128  co 
129  OL2 
130  OLT 
131  OLI 
132  ToL 
lJl  XYL 
11Ac63' 
134 
135  TPAN 
13'  HONO 
137  HN04 
l.3e  KET 
139  GLY 
140  MGLY 
141  DCB 
142  ONIT 
143  CSL 
144  ISO 
145  HO 
146  H02 

:11::11111:''1111'' 

11111'''1' 

11

'11

" 

1111111111°11• 

,,,,,,,111111111· 

' 

,'' 

I 

'" 

., 

;:1111" 11111" 

111·111 

1 111111 

,,,,:1111111111111, 

'''II 

1'"'":111111111 

1il:.,11lll1•,ll11: 

o". OOOE+OO  '  0. OOOE+OO 
O.lOOE-03  O.SOOE~04 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.600E-01 
O.SOOE-01 
O.SOOE-04 
O.SOOE-04 
0.150E-02 
0.200E-02 
0.400E-04 
0.400E-04 
0.200E-03  O.lSOE-03 
0.200E-06  0.150E-06 
0.400E-07  0.400E~07 
o.1.odE-03 
ci.sooE-04 
O.SOOE-06  O.SOOE-06 
O.SOOE-06.  O.SOOE-06 
0.300E-04  0.200E-04 
0. OOOE+oo  ''  0. OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.lOOE-04 
O.lOOE-04 
0.400E-05 
0.400E-05 
0.400E-05 
0.400E-05 
0.200E-05 
0.200E-05 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.700E-01 
0.650E-01 
0. o6c5E+oo  ,,,  0. OOOE+OO 
o.ooo:E+oo 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.lOOE-08 
0.100E-08 
0.100E-07 
O.lOOE-07 
0.100E-08 
0.100E-08 
0.200E-08 
0.200E-08 
0.400E-04 
0.400E-04 
o.1sb:E-06 
0.200E-06 

O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.200E-03 
0.200E-03 
0.200E-03 
O.lOOE-04  O.OOOE+OO 
O.lOOE-04 
O.lOOE-04  O.OOOE+OO 
0.100E-04 
0.350E-01  0.400E-01 
0.300E-01 
O.SOOE-04  O.SOOE-04 
O.SClOE-04 
,,,,,,,,,,,,,  0 . 2 6 0 E:- 0 2 
0.200E-02  0.200E-02 
0.400E-04 
0.400E-04  0.400E-04 
0.250E-03 
0.2SOE-03 
0.250E-03 
0.2SOE-06 
0.250E-06 
0.2SOE-06 
0.400E-07 
0.400E-07 
0.400E-07 
o .·''fd"'O'E-03 
O.lOOE-03 
O.lOOE-03 
O.SOOE-06 
O.SOOE-06 
0.1SOE-OS 
o.SOOE-06 
O.SOOE-06 
0.150E-05 
0. SCJOE-04 
O.SOOE-04 
O.SOOE-04 
'lllllll11·o11  ·1.  0. 0. OE+o 
O.OOOE+OO 
o.ocioE:+oo 
0 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.lOOE-04 
O.lOOE-04 
0.100E-04 
0.120E-04 
0.120E-04 
0.120E-04 
0.120E-04 
0.120E-04 
0.120E-04 
0.600E-05 
0.600E-05 
0.600E-05 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.700E-01 
0.700E-01 
0.700E-01 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO  O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO  O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.100E-08 
'(). lOOE-08  0. lOOE-08 
0.lOOE-07 
0.100E-07  0.100E-07 
0.100E-08 
0.100E-08  O.lOOE-08 
0.200E-08 
0.200E-08  0.200E-08 
0.400E-04 
0.400E-04 
o:2soE-o6 
0.250E-OG 

O.OOOE+OO 
0.200E-04 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.700E-01 
0.150E-03 
0.100E-02 
O.SOOE-05 
O.lOOE-03 
O.lOOE-06 
O.SOOE-08 
O.SOOE-04 
O.SOOE-06 
O.SOOE-06 
0.200E-04 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.lOOE-04 
0.400E-05 
0.400E-05 
0.200E-05 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.SSOE-01 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.100E-08 
O.lOOE-07 
O.lOOE-08 
0.200E-08 
·o.400E-04 
O.SOOE-05 
0.2SOE-06 
0.100E-06 
0.250E-06  0.250E-06  0.250E-06  0.200E-06  O.lSOE-06  0.100E-06 
0.250E-06  0.250E-06  0.2SOE-06  0.200E-06  0.150E-06  O.lOOE-06 
0.600E-05  0.600E-05  0.600E-05  0.200E-05  0.200E-05  0.200E-05 
0.100E-08  0.100E-08  O.lOOE-08  O.lOOE-08  0.100E-08  O.lOOE-08 
0.2SOE-05  0.250E-05  0.250E-05  0.250E-05  0.250E-05  0.250E-05 
O.OOOE+OO  O.OOOE+OO  O.OOOE+OO  O.OOOE+OO  O.OOOE+OO  O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO  O.OOOE+OO  O.OOOE+OO  O.OOOE+OO  O.OOOE+OO  O.OOOE+OO 

'11111'"""111111' 

:1:·.11111· 

'11111111111111111' 

1' 

1111 

,11111111 

Table 13-2.  CMAQ Predefined Vertical Profiles for Boundary Conditions 

147  AS04I 
148  AS04J 
149  NUMATKN 
150  NUMACC 
151  ASOIL 
152  NUMCOR 
153  West 

3.207E-02 
7.696E-01 
9.583E+09 
2.740E+08 
8.000E-01 
1.400E+04 

3.207E-02 
7.696E-01 
9.583E+09 
2.740E+08 
8.000E-01 
1.400E+04 

3.207E-02 
7.696E-01 
9.583E+09 
2.740E+08 
8.000E-01 
1.400E+04 

1.603E-02 
3.848E-01 
4.791E+09 
1.370E+08 
4.000E-01 
7.000E+03 

3.207E-03 
7.696E-02 
9.583E+08 
2.740E+07 
8.000E-02 
1.400E+03 

1. 603E-03 
3.848E-02 
4.791E+08 
1.370E+07 
4.000E-02 
7.000E+02 

154 
155  S02 
156  SULF 
157  N02 
158  NO 
159  03 
160  HN03 
161  H202 
162  ALD 
163  HCHO 
164  OP1 
165  OP2 
166  PAA 
167  ORA1 
168  ORA2 
169  NH3 
170  N205 
171  N03 
172  PAN 
173  HC3 
174  HC5 
175  HC8 
176  ETH 
177  co 
178  OL2 
179  OLT 
180  OLI 
181  TOL 
182  XYL 
183  AC03 
184  TPAN 
185  HONO 
186  HN04 
187  KET 
188  GLY 
189  MGLY 
190  DCB 
191  ONIT 
192  CSL 
193  ISO 
194  HO 
195  H02 

0.200E-03 
0.200E-03 
0.100E-03 
0.500E-04 
0.400E-Ol 
O.SOOE-03 
0.200E-02 
0.400E-04 
0.400E-03 
0.400E-06 
0.400E-07 
0.250E-04 
0.250E-05 
0.250E-05 
0.300E-03 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.lOOE-03 
0.800E-04 
0.800E-04 
0.400E-04 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.800E-01 
0.100E-04 
O.lOOE-05 
0.200E-06 
O.SOOE-05 
0.200E-05 
0.100E-08 

O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.600E-01 
0.200E-03 
0.800E-03 
0.400E-04 
0.100E-03 
0.100E-06 
0.400E-07 
0.200E-04 
0.500E-06 
0.500E-06 
O.lOOE-03 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.100E-04 
0.800E-05 
0.800E-05 
0.400E-05 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.650E-01 
0.100E-05 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.100E-08 

O.OOOE+OO 
0.300E-03 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.300E-03 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.100E-03 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.500E-04 
0.700E-01 
0.350E-01 
0.100E-03 
0.500E-03 
0.200E-03 
0.200E-02 
O.SOOE-05 
0.400E-04 
0.500E-04 
0.400E-03 
0.500E-07 
0.400E-06 
0.500E-08 
0.400E-07 
0.100E-04 
0.250E-04 
0.500E-06 
0.250E-05 
0.500E-06 
0.250E-05 
0.500E-04 
0.300E-03 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.100E-04 
0.100E-03 
0.400E-05 
0.800E-04 
0.400E-05 
0.800E-04 
0.200E-05 
0.400E-04 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.SOOE-01 
0.800E-01 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.100E-04 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.200E-05 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.lOOE-05 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.100E-04 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.300E-05 
0 .100E-08. 
O.lOOE-08 
0.100E-07  0.100E-07  0.100E-07  O.lOOE-07  0.100E-07  0.100E-07 
0.100E-08 
0.100E-08 
0.200E-08 
0.200E-08 
0.500E-05 
0.400E-04 
0.500E-07 
0.400E-06 
0.500E-07 
0.400E-06 
0.500E-07 
0.400E-06 
0.200E-05 
0.400E-04 
0.100E-08 
0.100E-08 
0.250E-05 
0.250E-05 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 

0.200E-03 
0.200E-03 
0.100E-03 
0.500E-04 
0.450E-01 
0.500E-03 
0.200E-02 
0.400E-04 
0.400E-03 
0.400E-06 
0.400E-07 
0.250E-04 
0.250E-05 
0.250E-05 
0.300E-03 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.100E-03 
0.800E-04 
0.800E-04 
0.400E-04 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.800E-01 
0.500E-05 
0.500E-06 
0.100E-06 
0.500E-05 
0.400E-06 
O.lOOE-08 

0.100E-08 
0.200E-08 
0.400E-04 
0.400E-06 
0.400E-06 
0.400E-06 
0.400E-04 
O.lOOE-08 
0.250E-05 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 

0.100E-03 
0.100E-03 
0.500E-04 
0.200E-04 
O.SOOE-01 
O.SOOE-03 
0.200E-02 
0.400E-04 
0.400E-03 
0.400E-06 
0.400E-07 
0.250E-04 
0.250E-05 
0.250E-05 
0.200E-03 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.SOOE-04 
0.600E-04 
0.600E-04 
0.300E-04 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.800E-01 
O.SOOE-05 
0.300E-06 
O.OOOE+OO 
0.300E-05 
0.400E-06 
0.100E-08 

0.100E-08 
0.200E-08 
0.400E-04 
0.400E-06 
0.400E-06 
0.400E-06 
0.300E-04 
0.100E-08 
0.250E-05 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 

0.100E-08 
0.200E-08 
0.400E-04 
0.400E-06 
0.400E-06 
0.400E-06 
0.400E-04 
0.100E-08 
0.250E-05 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 

13-19 

0.100E-08 
0.200E-08 
0.400E-04 
0.100E-06 
0.100E-06 
0.100E-06 
0.400E-05 
0.100E-08 
0.250E-05 
O.OOOE+OO 
O.OOOE+OO 

I : 1 I ! ! ! ~ : : 

'11111111 

"'111 

1
111;;,,, 

1 

1111111111

Table 13-2.  CMAQ Predefined Vertical Profiles for Boundary Conditions 

I' 

"I 

11111111111" 

1!16  AS04I 
197  AS04J 
198  NUMATKN 
199  NUMA CC 
200  ASOIL 
201  NUMCOR 

,, 

,,,,I',, 

1,,,,1 

I 

' , " i ' " " i 1 I " ~ I 

11
,, I 

11

~ 111111111 

1.603E-03 
4.SlOE-02  3.207E-02  3.207E-02 
1.154E+OO  7.696E-01  7.696E-01  3.848E-01  7.696E-02  3.848E-02 
1.437E+10  9.583E+09  9.583E+09  4.791E+09  9.583E+08  4.791E+08 
4.110E+08  2.740E+08  2.740E+08 
l.370E+08  2.740E+07  1. 370E+07 
1.000E+OO  8.000E-01  8.000E-01  4.000E-01  8.000E-02  4.000E-02 
1. 7SOE+04  1.400E+04 
l.400E+04  7.000E+03  1.400E+03  7.000E+02 

J.207E-03 

1.'E5oJE.:'.b:2 

11 

111

!11111

111, 

,1:.11111!1 

1
1111' 

1111111111: 

11111.1,1,1,h, 

'11111111 

11111 
, ... 11 

!ii',, 

,111.1 

Table 13-3.  Example RADM2 to CB4 Conversion Rules 

EPA/600/R-991030 

= 

= 

= 

N02 
NO 
0 
03 
N03 
OlD 
OH 
H02 
N205 
HN03 
HONO  = 
PNA 
H202  = 
co 
S02 
SULF 
PAN 
FACD 
AACD 
PACD 
UMHP 
MGLY  = 
OPEN  = 
CRES  = 
FORM  = 
ALD2 
PAR 

= 

OLE 
TOL 
ISOP 
ETH 
XYL 
TERP 

END; 

i 

N02 
NO 
i 
03P; 
03 
i 
N03; 
OlD; 
HO 
; 
H02 
; 
N205; 
HN03; 
HONO; 
HN04; 
H202; 
CO; 
S02; 
SULF; 
PAN; 
ORAl; 
ORA2; 
PAA; 
OPl; 
MGLY; 
DCB; 
CSL; 
HCHO  +  1. 0  *  GLY; 
+  2.0  *  OLI; 
+  2.9  *  HC3 
+ 
+  0.8  *  OLT  +  0.8  *  OLI  + 

+  4.8  *  HCS 

1.0  *  ALD 
0.4  *  ETH 
7.9  *  HC8 
3.9  *  KET; 
OLT; 
TOL; 
ISO; 
OL2; 
XYL; 
TERP; 

<!-- BEGIN COMMENT -->

[<< Previous Chapter](CMAQ_Science_Ch_12.md) - [Home](README.md) - [Next Chapter >>](CMAQ_Science_Ch_14.md)<br>
CMAQ Science Document (c) 1999<br>

<!-- END COMMENT -->

