<!-- BEGIN COMMENT -->

[<< Previous Chapter](CMAQ_UG_ch13_WRF-CMAQ.md) - [Home](README.md) - [Tables and Figures >>](CMAQ_UG_tables_figures.md)

<!-- END COMMENT -->

# 14. MPAS-CMAQ Model

## 14.1 Introduction

The atmospheric component of the Model for Prediction Across Scales (MPAS) is developed by the National Center for Atmospheric Research (NCAR). This meteorlogical model can be coupled with CMAQ starting with the release of CMAQ version 5.5. MPAS-CMAQ is currently available in a pre-configured simulation that uses a globally-uniform 120 km resolution mesh and the CRACMM2 chemical mechanism. Additional configurations may be made available on request, and tools for the creation of custom configurations will be included in future versions of CMAQ.

The MPAS-CMAQ model described here cannot be run in a stand-alone mode, with meteorological fields generated by MPAS used as input to CMAQ. This capability is planned for a future release.

## 14.2 Documentation

MPAS and CMAQ code are available on the [EPA's MPAS GitHub repository](https://github.com/USEPA/MPAS) and as a branch on the [CMAQ GitHub repository](https://github.com/USEPA/CMAQ/tree/MPAS_CMAQ) respecitively. The MPAS-CMAQ User's Guide is available in the [documentation directory](https://github.com/USEPA/CMAQ/blob/MPAS_CMAQ/DOCS/Users_Guide/PDF/MPAS_CMAQ_guide.pdf) of the MPAS-CMAQ branch. The MPAS-CMAQ User's Guide provides detailed information on downloading, compiling, configuring, and running the model. 

## 14.3 References of Interest

Bullock Jr., O. R., Foroutan, H., Gilliam, R. C., and Herwehe, J. A.: Adding four-dimensional data assimilation by analysis nudging to the Model for Prediction Across Scales – Atmosphere (version 4.0), Geosci. Model Dev., 11, 2897–2922, https://doi.org/10.5194/gmd-11-2897-2018, 2018.

Gilliam, R. C., Herwehe, J. A., Bullock, Jr, O. R., Pleim, J. E., Ran, L., Campbell, P. C., & Foroutan, H.: Establishing the suitability of the model for prediction across scales for global retrospective air quality modeling. Journal of Geophysical Research: Atmospheres, 126, e2020JD033588. https://doi.org/10.1029/2020JD033588, 2021.

Wong, D. C., Willison, J., Pleim, J. E., Sarwar, G., Beidler, J., Bullock, R., Herwehe, J. A., Gilliam, R., Kang, D., Hogrefe, C., Pouliot, G., and Foroutan, H.: Development of the MPAS-CMAQ Coupled System (V1.0) for Multiscale Global Air Quality Modeling, Geosci. Model Dev. Discuss. [preprint], https://doi.org/10.5194/gmd-2024-52, in review, 2024.


[<< Previous Chapter](CMAQ_UG_ch13_WRF-CMAQ.md) - [Home](README.md) - [Tables and Figures >>](CMAQ_UG_tables_figures.md)<br>
CMAQv5.5 User's Guide <br>

<!-- END COMMENT -->

