
<!-- BEGIN COMMENT -->

 [<< Previous Chapter](CMAQ_UG_ch03_preparing_compute_environment.md) - [Home](README.md) - [Next Chapter >>](CMAQ_UG_ch05_running_a_simulation.md)

<!-- END COMMENT -->

# 4. Model Input Files

This chapter provides basic information on the format and content of CMAQ input files.  It also provides information on using the pre-processing tools provided in the repository for preparing inital and boundary conditions and meteorology inputs.  Links are provided for  the emissions processing tools that are released through thier own repository or website.  A list of CMAQ input files can be found in [Table 4-1](#Input_Table). Some CMAQ input files are in ASCII format while the majority of them are in the [Network Common Data Form (netCDF)] format (http://www.unidata.ucar.edu/software/netcdf). CMAQ input and output files are self-describing netCDF-format files in which the file headers have all the dimensioning and descriptive information needed to define the resident data. Users should download the latest code for the NetCDF from the [NetCDF website](http://www.unidata.ucar.edu/software/netcdf). Compilation and configuration information for the NetCDF is available through the Unidata website.

All CMAQ input and output files are conformed to I/O API netCDF file format. Please refer to the [I/O API User's Manual](https://www.cmascenter.org/ioapi/documentation/all_versions/html) for details.


## 4.1 CMAQ Pre-processors 
### 4.1.1 Meteorology-Chemistry Interface Processor (MCIP)

MCIP processes meteorological fields output by the WRF model into files that are compatible with the CCTM and SMOKE (an emissions processor that computes emissions inputs for CMAQ). The output files generated by MCIP are used by ICON and BCON and various other programs in CMAQ, so MCIP must be the first program run after installing the CMAQ source codes and initializing CMAQ environment variables. Configuration options for MCIP include the time periods over which to extract data from the meteorological model output files, horizontal grid definitions for output, and control for optional 3D output variables. MCIP can either process the full horizontal domain from WRF or a user-defined subset of that domain (that is, a "window").  Unlike many of the programs in the CMAQ program suite MCIP is compiled with a Makefile and then run with a run script. Instructions on how to compile and run MCIP are provided in the [README.md](../../PREP/mcip/README.md) file in the PREP/mcip folder.

Most of the fields that are simulated by WRF are not modified by MCIP for the CCTM and the emissions model, and they are "passed through" to the output. In additions, fields that are required to transform to CMAQ’s generalized coordinate system are calculated within MCIP. The dry deposition velocities are now calculated in the CCTM; MCIPv3.4 was the last version to calculate those velocities internally.


### 4.1.2 Initial Conditions Processor (ICON)

ICON generates a gridded netCDF file of the chemical conditions for all grid cells in the modeling domain for the initial time of a simulation. It can generate these initial conditions from either an existing CCTM output file or an ASCII file of vertically resolved concentration profiles distributed with CMAQ. Running ICON requires that the user already generated MCIP files for their target modeling domain. For both input file options, ICON will interpolate the data to the horizontal and vertical structure of the target domain as defined in the MCIP files. The species in the ICON output file are identical to those in the input (either CCTM output or ASCII profile) file.

Using an existing CCTM output file to generate initial conditions is applicable when extrapolating initial conditions from a coarse to a fine grid simulation, as may occur when setting up nested simulations (simulations with finer-resolution grids that cover part of coarser-resolution grids). This is the preferred mode of specifying initial conditions since the spatial concentration patterns derived from the coarser-resolution simulation can be considered a first approximation of the concentration fields over the finer-resolution subdomain at the beginning of the simulation.

The ASCII file of vertically resolved concentration profiles distributed with CMAQ represents annual average concentrations at a grid cell over the Pacific derived from a simulation with the hemispheric version of CMAQv5.3 beta2 for the year 2016. As such, these concentration profiles are reflective of conditions in a remote marine environment. If this ASCII profile file is used to generate initial conditions, the resulting concentration fields will be uniform over the modeling domain and will not be a realistic representation of conditions over the modeling domain. As a result, simulations initialized with profile-derived rather than CCTM-derived concentration fields may require longer spin-up periods before conditions simulated within the domain no longer are influenced by these unrealistic initial concentration fields.  

The configuration options for ICON include choosing whether the initial conditions are generated from an existing CCTM output file or from an ASCII profile, and defining the horizontal and vertical grids and time for which initial conditions are to be generated. Information on configuring ICON for the different kinds of input data, environment variables, input and output files, compiling and running ICON are provided in the [README.md](../../PREP/icon/README.md) file in the PREP/icon folder.

### 4.1.3 Boundary Conditions Processor (BCON)

BCON generates a netCDF file of the chemical conditions along the lateral boundaries of the modeling domain. BCON will generate an output file with chemical concentrations for all grid cells along the modeling domain's horizontal boundaries. It can generate these boundary conditions from either an existing CCTM output file or an ASCII file of vertically resolved concentration profiles distributed with CMAQ. Running BCON requires that the user already generated MCIP files for their target modeling domain. For both input file options, BCON will interpolate the data to the horizontal and vertical structure of the target domain as defined in the MCIP files. The species in the BCON output file are identical to those in the input (either CCTM output or ASCII profile) file. Depending on user specified options and/or input datasets, the boundary conditions generated by BCON can be time varying, time independent, and either spatially uniform or variable across the model boundaries.

Using an existing CCTM output file to generate boundary conditions is applicable when setting up windowed simulations (simulations with the same resolution that cover only a part of the outer domain) or nested simulations (simulations with finer-resolution grids that cover part of coarser-resolution grids). This is the preferred mode of specifying boundary conditions since the spatial concentration patterns derived from the coarser-resolution simulation will be spatially varying along the boundaries of the finer-resolution domain. Boundary conditions generated from CCTM output files will be either time varying or time independent.

The ASCII file of vertically resolved concentration profiles distributed with CMAQ represents annual average concentrations at a grid cell over the Pacific derived from a simulation with the hemispheric version of CMAQv5.3 beta2 for the year 2016. As such, these concentration profiles are reflective of conditions in a remote marine environment. If this ASCII profile file is used to generate boundary conditions, the resulting concentration fields will be uniform along the boundaries of the modeling domain and will not vary in time. Therefore, they are not a realistic representation of conditions along the domain boundaries and should only be used in cases where boundary conditions are not expected to affect the interpretation of model results. 

CMAQ can use boundary conditions derived from global chemistry models (GCMs). While BCON does not directly support processing of datasets from GCMs (other than the hemispheric version of CMAQ) in their native formats, users could develop their own custom codes to transform their GCM datasets into I/O API format, which would then allow these datasets to be input into BCON in the same way as an existing CCTM output file. 

The configuration options for BCON include choosing whether the boundary conditions are generated from an existing CCTM output file or from an ASCII profile, and defining the horizontal and vertical grids and time period for which boundary conditions are to be generated. Information on configuring BCON for the different kinds of input data, environment variables, input and output files, compiling and running BCON are provided in the [README.md](../../PREP/bcon/README.md) file in the PREP/bcon folder.

### 4.1.4 Emissions Processor (SMOKE) 
Sparse Matrix Operator Kerner Emissions (SMOKE) Modeling System 

### 4.1.5  Fertilizer Emissions Processor (FEST-C)

### 4.1.6 Creating an Ocean File with the Spatial Allocator (SA)

### 4.1.7 Windblown Dust (Optional Pre-Processor)


<a id=inputs></a>
## 4.2 CMAQ Input Files

[Jump to Table of Input Files](#Input_Table)<br>
[Jump to CCTM Output Files in Chapter 6](CMAQ_UG_ch06_model_outputs.md)

CMAQ requires a basic set of input files: initial condition file, which is created by ICON process or previous day output; boundary condition file, which is created by BCON process; emission files; and meteorological data created by MCIP using WRF and terrain data. There are a few other input files are required bases on user chosen run time option. CMAQ output files include a basic set of files with aerosol and gas-phase species concentrations, wet and dry deposition estimates, and visibility metrics, and an auxiliary set of output files for diagnosing model performance and in-line-calculated emissions.

Rather than forcing the programmer and program-user to deal with hard-coded file names or hard-coded unit numbers, the I/O API utilizes the concept of logical file names. The modelers can define the logical names as properties of a program, and then at run-time the logical names can be linked to the actual file name using environment variables. For programming purposes, the only limitations are that file names cannot contain blank spaces and must be at most 16 characters long. When a modeler runs a program that uses the I/O API, environment variables must be used to set the values for the program’s logical file names. A complete list of CMAQ input by is provided in [Table 4-1](#Input_Table).

This section describes each of the input files required by the various CMAQ programs. The section begins with a description of the grid definition file, GRIDDESC, which is used by several CMAQ programs, and then goes through a program-by-program listing of the CMAQ input file requirements. [Table 4-1](#Input_Table) lists the source, file type, and temporal and spatial dimensions of each CMAQ input file. The user should consult the CMAQ release notes for additional file information. The programs used to generate the files ("Source") are described in Section 2. Typical time step is 1 hour and user can specify a finer one, e.g. 20 minutes. In addition, typical thickness of a boundary file is 1, i.e. NTHIK = 1 but it can be any positive integer.


**>> Comment <<** DS: Should the column header by "Environment Variable Namefor File" or "Logical File Name"?

<a id=Input_Table></a>
**Table 4-1. CMAQ input files.**  Note that when "Time-Dependence" is listed as "Hourly", it is shorthand for a time-varying file.  It is recommended that CMAQ use a time increment that is no longer than one hour.  However, CMAQ can be run with a Time Dependence that is shorter than hourly.

|**Environment Variable Name for File**|**File Type**|**Time-Dependence**|**Spatial Dimensions**|**Source**|**Required**|
|----------------------|-----------|-----------|----------|----------|---------|
|**General**|  | | |||
|[GRIDDESC](#griddesc) <a id=griddesc_t></a>|ASCII|n/a|n/a|MCIP|required|
|[gc_matrix_nml](#matrix_nml) <a id=matrix_nml_t></a>|ASCII|n/a|n/a|CMAQ repo|required|
|[ae_matrix_nml](#matrix_nml) <a id=matrix_nml_t></a>|ASCII|n/a|n/a|CMAQ repo|required|
|[nr_matrix_nml](#matrix_nml) <a id=matrix_nml_t></a>|ASCII|n/a|n/a|CMAQ repo|required|
|[tr_matrix_nml](#matrix_nml) <a id=matrix_nml_t></a>|ASCII|n/a|n/a|CMAQ repo|required|
|**Initial Condition Inputs**|  | | ||
|[INIT_CONC_1](#init_conc_1) <a id=init_conc_1_t></a> | GRDDED3 | Time-invariant | XYZ | ICON or CCTM|required|
|[INIT_GASC_1](#init_conc_1) <a id=init_conc_1_t></a>|GRDDED3|Time-invariant | XYZ | ICON or CCTM |required|
|[INIT_AERO_1](#init_conc_1) <a id=init_conc_1_t></a>|GRDDED3|Time-invariant | XYZ | ICON or CCTM|required|
|[INIT_NONR_1](#init_conc_1) <a id=init_conc_1_t></a>|GRDDED3|Time-invariant | XYZ | ICON or CCTM|required|
|[INIT_TRAC_1](#init_conc_1) <a id=init_conc_1_t></a>|GRDDED3|Time-invariant | XYZ | ICON or CCTM|required|
|**Boundary Condition Inputs**| | | | ||
|[BNDY_CONC_1](#bndy_conc_1) <a id=bndy_conc_1_t></a> | BNDARY3 | Hourly |[2(X+1)+2(Y+1)]\*Z | BCON|required|
|[BNDY_GASC_1](#bndy_conc_1) <a id=bndy_conc_1_t></a> |BNDARY3| Hourly |[2(X+1)+2(Y+1)]\*Z|BCON|required|
|[BNDY_AERO_1](#bndy_conc_1) <a id=bndy_conc_1_t></a> |BNDARY3| Hourly |[2(X+1)+2(Y+1)]\*Z|BCON|required|
|[BNDY_NONR_1](#bndy_conc_1) <a id=bndy_conc_1_t></a> |BNDARY3| Hourly |[2(X+1)+2(Y+1)]\*Z|BCON|required|
|[BNDY_TRAC_1](#bndy_conc_1) <a id=bndy_conc_1_t></a> |BNDARY3| Hourly |[2(X+1)+2(Y+1)]\*Z|BCON|required|
|**MCIP**| | | | |||
|[GRID_CRO_2D](#grid_cro_2d) <a id=grid_cro_2d_t></a>| GRDDED3 | Time-invariant | XY | MCIP|required|
|[GRID_BDY_2D](#grid_bdy_2d) <a id=grid_bdy_2d_t></a>| BNDARY3 | Time-invariant | PERIM\*Z | MCIP|required|
|[GRID_DOT_2D](#grid_dot_2d) <a id=grid_dot_2d_t></a>| GRDDED3 | Time-invariant | (X+1)\*(Y+1) | MCIP|required|
|[MET_BDY_3D](#met_bdy_3d) <a id=met_bdy_3d_t></a>| BNDARY3 | Hourly | PERIM\*Z | MCIP|required|
|[MET_CRO_2D](#met_cro_2d) <a id=met_cro_2d_t></a>| GRDDED3 | Hourly | XY | MCIP|required|
|[MET_CRO_3D](#met_cro_3d) <a id=met_cro_3d_t></a>| GRDDED3 | Hourly | XYZ | MCIP|required|
|[MET_DOT_3D](#met_dot_3d) <a id=met_dot_3d_t></a>| GRDDED3 | Hourly | (X+1)\*(Y+1)Z | MCIP|required|
|[LUFRAC_CRO](#lufrac_cro) <a id=lufrac_cro_t></a>| GRDDED3 | Time-invariant | XYL | MCIP|optional (contains fractional landuse by category)|
|[SOI_CRO](#soi_cro) <a id=soi_cro_t></a>| GRDDED3 | Hourly | XYS | MCIP | optional (Contains soil moisture and soil temperature in layers. A two-layer representation of those fields is currently mirrored in MET_CRO_2D.)|
|[MOSAIC_CRO](#mosaic_cro) <a id=mosaic_cro_t></a>| GRDDED3| Hourly| XYM | MCIP|optional (Contains surface fields in mosaic land use categories if Noah Mosaic LSM was run in WRF. Can work with STAGE deposition in CCTM.)|
|[mcip.nc](#mcip) <a id=mcip_t></a>| netCDF | varies by field | varies by field | MCIP|required if IOFORM=2 (Currently not compatible with rest of CMAQ system.)|
|[mcip_bdy.nc](#mcip_bdy) <a id=mcip_bdyt></a>| netCDF | varies by field | varies by field | MCIP|required if IOFORM=2 (Currently not compatible with rest of CMAQ system.)|
|**Emissions Inputs**||||||
|[EMIS_XXX*](#emis_xxx) <a id=emis_xxx_t></a> | GRDDED3 | Hourly | XYZ | SMOKE|required|
|[STK_GRPS_XXX](#stk_grps) <a id=stk_grps_t></a> | GRDDED3 |Time-invariant|XY | SMOKE|required|
|[STK_EMIS_XXX](#stk_emis) <a id=stk_emis_t></a> | GRDDED3 | Hourly | XY | SMOKE|required|
|[NLDN_STRIKES](#nldn_strikes) <a id=nldn_strikes_t></a>| GRDDED3 | Hourly | XY |Must purchase data|optional for including NO from lightning|
|[LTNGPARMS_FILE](#ltngparm_file) <a id=ltngparm_file_t></a>| GRDDED3 | Time-invariant | XY |CMAS|required for including NO from lightning|
|**Biogenic and Land Surface Inputs**||||||
|[OCEAN_1](#ocean_1) <a id=ocean_1_t></a>| GRDDED3 | Time-invariant | XY |Spatial Allocator|required|
|[GSPRO](#gspro) <a id=gspro_t></a>| ASCII | Time-invariant | N/a | CMAQ repo|required|
|[B3GRD](#b3grd) <a id=b3grd_t></a>| GRDDED3 | Time-invariant | XY | SMOKE|required for running CMAQ with inline biogenics|
|[BIOSEASON](#bioseason) <a id=bioseason_t></a>|GRDDED3 |Time-invariant | XY | SMOKE|optional (run-time option)|
|[E2C_LU](#e2c_lu) <a id=e2c_lu_t></a>| GRDDED3 | Time-invariant |XY|EPIC|required for running CMAQ with bidirectional NH3|
|[E2C_SOIL](#e2c_soil) <a id=e2c_soil_t></a>| GRDDED3 | Time-invariant | XY|EPIC|required for running CMAQ with bidirectional NH3|
|[E2C_CHEM](#e2c_chem) <a id=e2c_chem_t></a>| GRDDED3 | Daily |XY|EPIC|optional|
|**Photolysis** | | | |||
|[OMI](#omi) <a id=omi_t></a>| ASCII | Daily | n/a |CMAQ repo or create_omi|required|

*XXX - three-digit variable indicating emission stream number. Gridded and Inline Point emissions are numbered independently.

## General
<a id=griddesc></a> 
### GRIDDESC: Horizontal domain definition
[Return to Table 4-1](#griddesc_t)

Used by: ICON, BCON, CCTM

The CMAQ grid description file (**GRIDDESC**) is an ASCII file that contains two sections: a horizontal coordinate section, and grid description section.  The GRIDDESC file is generated automatically with MCIP; alternatively, GRIDDESC can be created using a text editor.

The horizontal coordinate section consists of text records that provide the coordinate-system name, the map projection, and descriptive parameters that are relevant to the projection type (e.g. longitude for coordinate system center)

The grid description section consists of text records that indicate the grid name, related coordinate-system name (i.e., which GRIDDESC horizontal coordinate name that is defined in the previous section that is applied to this grid), and descriptive parameters for the coordinates of the lower-left corner of the grid, grid cell size, number of columns, and rows. For a typical CMAQ application, both "dot-point" and "cross-point" grids are defined in the GRIDDESC file; these grids are topological duals in the sense that the vertices (corners) of one correspond to the cell-centers of the other. There are at most 32 coordinate systems and 256 grids listed in one of these files. These files are small enough to be archived easily with a study, and have a sufficiently simple format that new ones can easily be constructed "by hand."

An example of a GRIDDESC file is shown below:

` ' '`
` 'LAM_40N100W'`
` 2 30.0 60.0 -100.0 -100.0 40.0`
` ' '`
` 'M_32_99TUT02'`
` 'LAM_40N100W' 544000.0 -992000.0 32000.0 32000.0 38 38 1`
` ' '`

The horizontal coordinate section (first section) in this example GRIDDESC file defines a horizontal coordinate named “LAM_40N100W”. The coordinate definition is for a Lambert conformal grid, keyed by the first column of the coordinate description line, which corresponds to the numeric code for the various I/O API-supported grid types (2 = Lambert). The next three parameters (P_ALP, P_BET, and P_GAM) have different definitions for different map projections. For Lambert conformal, P_ALP and P_BET are the true latitudes of the projection cone (30°N and 60°N in the example), and P_GAM (100°W in the example) is the central meridian of the projection. The last two parameters, XCENT and YCENT, are the latitude-longitude coordinates of the grid center of the Cartesian coordinate system, which are 100°W and 40°N in the example. If using WRF-ARW as the meteorological model, the user should be aware of differences from this method.

The example grid definition section above describes a grid named “M_32_99TUT02”. The definition of the grid begins with a reference to a coordinate name from the coordinate definition section of the file; in this example, the coordinate named “LAM_40N100W” is referenced in the grid definition. The next two parameters in the grid definition (XORIG and YORIG) are the east-west and north-south offsets from XCENT and YCENT in meters (WRF-ARW usages may differ). The next two parameters (XCELL and YCELL) are the horizontal grid spacing in meters for the X and Y directions (i.e., delta-x and delta-y). The next two parameters (NCOLS and NROWS) are the numbers of grid cells in the X and Y directions. The grid definition concludes with the number of boundary cells, NTHIK, which is typically set to 1.

<a id=matrix_nml></a>

### {gc|ae|nr|tr}_matrix.nml: Species namelist files
[Return to Table 4-1](#matrix_nml_t)

Used by: BCON, CCTM, ICON, CHEMMECH

Namelist look-up tables for different classes of simulated pollutants are used to define the parameters of different model species during the execution of the CMAQ programs. Gas-phase (gc), aerosol (ae), non-reactive (nr), and tracer (tr) species namelist files contain parameters for the model species that are included in these different classifications. The species namelist files are used to control how the different CMAQ programs and processes handle the model species. The namelist files define the following processes for each model species:


-   Deposition velocity – which (if any) deposition velocity is the deposition velocity for the pollutant mapped to; allowed velocities are specified within the model source code.
-   Deposition velocity factor – if the pollutant is mapped to a deposition velocity, uniformly apply a scaling factor to this velocity.
-   Initial condition– which initial condition species is the pollutant mapped to; if not specified, this will default to the species name.
-   IC Factor – if the pollutant is mapped to an initial condition species, uniformly apply a scaling factor to the concentrations.
-   Boundary condition – which boundary condition species is the pollutant mapped to; if not specified, this will default to the species name.
-   BC Factor – if the pollutant is mapped to an boundary condition species, uniformly apply a scaling factor to the concentrations.
-   Scavenging - which (if any) species is the pollutant mapped to; Allowed scavenging surrogates are specified within the model source code.
-   Scavenging factor - if the pollutant is mapped to an species for scavenging, uniformly apply a scaling factor to the scavenging rate.
-   Gas-to-aerosol conversion – which (if any) aerosol chemistry species does the gas phase pollutant concentration go into for transformation from the gas-phase to the aerosol-phase.
-   Gas-to-aqueous Surrogate – which (if any) cloud chemistry species does the gas pollutant concentration go into for simulating chemistry within cloud water.
-   Aerosol-to-aqueous Surrogate – which (if any) cloud chemistry species does the aerosol pollutant concentration go into for simulating chemistry within cloud water.
-   Transport – is the pollutant transported by advection and diffusion in the model?
-   Dry deposition – Write the pollutant to the dry deposition output file?
-   Wet deposition – Write the pollutant to the wet deposition output file?
-   Concentration – Write the pollutant to the instantaneous concentration output file?

The namelist files contain header information that describe which class of species are contained in the file, the number of parameters contained in the file, headers describing the parameter fields, and then a series of rows with configuration parameters for every model species. [Table 4-2](#Table4-2) contains the namelist file format for the gas-phase (GC) species namelist file. The namelist files for the other species classifications (AE, NR, TR) are similar to the format shown in [Table 4-2](#Table4-2).

<a id=Table4-2></a>

**Table 4-2. GC species namelist file format**

| **Line**| **Column** |**Name** | **Type**| **Description** |**Options for Syntax**:|
|-----|-----|----------------------|----------|--------------------------------------------|----------------------------|
| 1 || File Type |String|String to delineate Gas Phase (GC), Aerosol (AE), Non-reactive (NR) and Tracer (TR) species namelist|{&GC_nml, &AE_nml, &NR_nml, &TR_nml}|
| 3 || Header ID | String |String to define data structure relating to namelist|{GC_SPECIES_DATA=, AE_SPECIES DATA= , NR_SPECIES_DATA= ,TR_SPECIES_DATA = }|
| 5 |1| SPECIES | String |CMAQ Species name, i.e. NO, HNO3, PAR; dependent on chemical mechanism|-|
||2| MOLWT| Integer |Species Molecular Weight|-|
|  |3| IC | String |IC surrogate species name for the CMAQ Species|{'Species name', ' '}|
|  |4| FAC | Integer |Scaling factor for the IC concentration|{Any integer: default = -1 if IC is not specified}|
|  |5| BC | String |BC surrogate species name for the CMAQ Species|{'Species name', ' '}|
|  |6| FAC | Integer |Scaling factor for the BC concentration|{Any integer: default = -1 if BC is not specified}|
| |7| DRYDEP SURR | String |Deposition velocity variable name for the CMAQ Species|-|
| |8| FAC | Integer |Scaling factor for the deposition velocity|{Any integer: default = -1 if SURR is not specified}|
| |9| WET-SCAV SURR | String |Wet Deposition Scavenging surrogate species|-|
| | 10 | FAC | Integer |Scaling factor for Scavenging|{Any integer: default = -1 if SURR is not specified}|
|| 11 | GC2AE SURR | String |Gas-to-aerosol transformation species|-|
|| 12 | GC2AQ SURR | String |Gas-to-aqueous transformation species|-|
|| 13 | TRNS | String |Transport Switch. *NOTE: Instead of using one column labeled "TRNS" to turn/off both advection and diffusion for a pollutant, two separate columns labeled "ADV" and "DIFF" can be used to switch on/off advection and diffusion separately.|{YES/NO}|
|| 14 | DDEP | String |Dry deposition output file switch|{YES/NO}|
|| 15 | WDEP | Real |Wet deposition output file switch|{YES/NO}|
|| 16 | CONC | String |Concentration output file switch|{YES/NO}|



The namelist files for the other pollutant classes have similar configurations as the gas-phase species configuration shown in [Table 4-2](#Table4-2). For an example see this [link](../../CCTM/src/MECHS/cb06r3_ae7_aq/GC_cb6r3_ae7_aq.nml) to the GC namelist species file for the cb06r3_ae7_aq mechanism.

## Initial Condition Inputs
<a id=init_conc_1></a>

### INIT_CONC_1: Initial conditions
[Return to Table 4-1](#init_conc_1_t)

Used by: CCTM

The initial concentrations of each species being modeled must be input to CMAQ. The initial conditions input file type is GRDDED3 and does not vary with time. The actual file data are organized in this manner: by column, by row, by layer, by variable. Initial conditions files have the same structure as concentration files, so the predicted concentrations from the last hour of day 1 can be used to initialize the following day’s simulation. This gives CMAQ users the flexibility to segment simulations in any way they choose.

## Boundary Condition Inputs
<a id=bndy_conc_1></a>

### BNDY_CONC_1: Boundary conditions
[Return to Table 4-1](#bndy_conc_1_t)

Used by: CCTM

CMAQ boundary condition data are of the BNDARY3 file type. Produced by the boundary condition processor, BCON, CCTM reads these data and correlates them with the interior data by the use of a pointer system. This pointer system designates the beginning location of the data in memory that start a new side of the domain (i.e., south, east, north, or west). Consult IOAPI User Guide for a pictorial description.

Each species being modeled should be in the BNDY_CONC_1 file. If some modeled species are not contained in this file, the boundary condition for these species will default to the value 1 × 10e<sup>-30</sup>. The perimeter of the CMAQ domain is NTHIK cell wide (typically NTHIK = 1), where the number of boundary cells = (2*NROW*NTHIK)+(2*NCOL*NTHIK)+(4*NTHIK*NTHIK).

## MCIP

<a id=grid_cro_2d></a>
<a id=grid_bdy_2d></a>
<a id=grid_dot_2d></a>
<a id=met_bdy_3d></a>
<a id=met_cro_2d></a>
<a id=met_cro_3d></a>
<a id=met_dot_3d></a>
<a id=mcip></a>
<a id=mcip_bdy></a>
### GRID_CRO_2D, GRID_BDY_2D, GRID_DOT_2D, MET_BDY_3D, MET_CRO_2D, MET_CRO_3D, MET_DOT_3D
[Return to Table 4-3](#grid_cro_2d_t)

Used by: CCTM

MET_CRO_3D is also used by ICON, BCON

**Table 4-3**  MCIP output variables used within the CMAQ system.  All fields are located at cell centers, except where noted in the Description.

|**Variable Name**|**Description**|**Units**|**Dimensions**|**File**|**Required**|
|--------|---------------|--------------|----------|------------|----------|
|LAT|latitude|degrees, where Northern Hemisphere is positive|XY|GRIDCRO2D and GRIDBDY2D, or mcip.nc and mcip_bdy.nc|yes|
|LON|longitude|degrees, where Western Hemisphere is negative|XY|GRIDCRO2D and GRIDBDY2D, or mcip.nc and mcip_bdy.nc|yes|
|MSFX2|squared map-scale factor|m<sup>2</sup> m<sup>-2</sup>|XY|GRIDCRO2D and GRIDBDY2D, or mcip.nc and mcip_bdy.nc|yes|
|HT|terrain elevation|m|XY|GRIDCRO2D and GRIDBDY2D, or mcip.nc and mcip_bdy.nc|yes|
|DLUSE|dominant land use|category|XY|GRIDCRO2D and GRIDBDY2D, or mcip.nc and mcip_bdy.nc|yes|
|LWMASK|land-water mask|1=land, 0=water|XY|GRIDCRO2D and GRIDBDY2D, or mcip.nc and mcip_bdy.nc|yes|
|PURB|urban percent of cell based on land coverage|percent|XY|GRIDCRO2D and GRIDBDY2D, or mcip.nc and mcip_bdy.nc|no, but refines vertical mixing in urban areas|
|LUFRAC|fraction of land use by category|1|XYL|LUFRACCRO or mcip.nc|no, but refines deposition with both M3Dry and STAGE|
|LATD|latitude|degrees, where Northern Hemisphere is positive (at cell corners)|XY|GRIDDOT2D or mcip.nc|no|
|LOND|longitude|degrees, where Western Hemisphere is negative (at cell corners)|XY|GRIDDOT2D or mcip.nc|no|
|MSFD2|squared map scale factor|m<sup>2</sup> m<sup>-2</sup> (at cell corners)|XY|GRIDDOT2D or mcip.nc|no|
|LATU|latitude|degrees, where Northern Hemisphere is positive (at cell west-east faces)|XY|GRIDDOT2D or mcip.nc|no|
|LONU|longitude|degrees, where Western Hemisphere is negative (at cell west-east faces)|XY|GRIDDOT2D or mcip.nc|no|
|MSFU2|squared map scale factor|m<sup>2</sup> m<sup>-2</sup> (at cell west-east faces)|XY|GRIDDOT2D or mcip.nc|yes|
|LATV|latitude|degrees, where Northern Hemisphere is positive (at cell south-north faces)|XY|GRIDDOT2D or mcip.nc|no|
|LONV|longitude|degrees, where Western Hemisphere is negative (at cell south-north faces)|XY|GRIDDOT2D or mcip.nc|no|
|MSFV2|squared map scale factor|m<sup>2</sup> m<sup>-2</sup> (at cell south-north faces)|XY|GRIDDOT2D or mcip.nc|yes|
|PRSFC|surface pressure|Pa|XYT|METCRO2D or mcip.nc|yes|
|USTAR|cell-averaged horizontal friction velocity|m s<sup>-1</sup>|XYT|METCRO2D or mcip.nc|yes|
|WSTAR|convective velocity scale|m s<sup>-1</sup>|XYT|METCRO2D or mcip.nc|yes|
|PBL|planetary boundary layer height|m|XYT|METCRO2D or mcip.nc|yes|
|ZRUF|surface roughness length|m|XYT|METCRO2D or mcip.nc|yes|
|MOLI|inverse Monin-Obukhov length|m<sup>-1</sup>|XYT|METCRO2D or mcip.nc|yes|
|HFX|sensible heat flux|W m<sup>-2</sup>|XYT|METCRO2D or mcip.nc|yes|
|LH|latent heat flux|W m<sup>-2</sup>|XYT|METCRO2D or mcip.nc|yes|
|RADYNI|inverse aerodynamic resistance|m s<sup>-1</sup>|XYT|METCRO2D or mcip.nc|yes|
|RSTOMI|inverse bulk stomatal resistance|m s<sup>-1</sup>|XYT|METCRO2D or mcip.nc|yes|
|TEMPG|skin temperature at ground|K|XYT|METCRO2D or mcip.nc|yes|
|TEMP2|2-m temperature|K|XYT|METCRO2D or mcip.nc|yes|
|Q2|2-m water vapor mixing ratio|kg kg<sup>-1</sup>|XYT|METCRO2D or mcip.nc|yes|
|WSPD10|10-m wind speed|m s<sup>-1</sup>|XYT|METCRO2D or mcip.nc|yes|
|WDIR10|10-m wind direction|degrees|XYT|METCRO2D or mcip.nc|no|
|GLW|longwave radiation at ground|W m<sup>-2</sup>|XYT|METCRO2D or mcip.nc|yes|
|GSW|solar radiation absorbed at ground|W m<sup>-2</sup>|XYT|METCRO2D or mcip.nc|yes|
|RGRND|solar radiation reaching the surface|W m<sup>-2</sup>|XYT|METCRO2D or mcip.nc|yes|
|RN|incremental (per output time step) nonconvective precipitation|cm|XYT|METCRO2D or mcip.nc|yes|
|RC|incremental (per output time step) convective precipitation|cm|XYT|METCRO2D or mcip.nc|yes|
|SNOCOV|snow cover|1=yes, 0=no|XYT|METCRO2D or mcip.nc|yes|
|VEG|vegetation coverage|1|XYT|METCRO2D or mcip.nc|yes|
|LAI|leaf-area index|m<sup>2</sup> m<sup>-2</sup>|XYT|METCRO2D or mcip.nc|yes|
|WR|canopy moisture content|m|XYT|METCRO2D or mcip.nc|yes|
|SEAICE|sea ice|1|XYT|METCRO2D or mcip.nc|yes|
|SNOWH|snow height|m|XYT|METCRO2D or mcip.nc|yes|
|SOIM1|volumetric soil moisture in top cm|m<sup>3</sup> m<sup>-3</sup>|XYT|METCRO2D or mcip.nc|yes, but preferred to use from SOIM3D|
|SOIM2|volumetric soil moisture in top m|m<sup>3</sup> m<sup>-3</sup>|XYT|METCRO2D or mcip.nc|yes, but preferred to use from SOIM3D|
|SOIT1|soil temperature in top cm|K|XYT|METCRO2D or mcip.nc|yes, but preferred to use from SOIT3D|
|SOIT2|soil temperature in top m|K|XYT|METCRO2D or mcip.nc|yes, but preferred to use from SOIT3D|
|SLTYP|soil texture type|1|XYT|METCRO2D or mcip.nc|yes|
|WWLT_PX|soil wilting point from PX LSM|m<sup>3</sup> m<sup>-3</sup>|XYT|METCRO2D or mcip.nc|no, but used if available|
|WFC_PX|soil field capacity from PX LSM|m<sup>3</sup> m<sup>-3</sup>|XYT|METCRO2D or mcip.nc|no, but used if available|
|WSAT_PX|soil saturation from PX LSM|m<sup>3</sup> m<sup>-3</sup>|XYT|METCRO2D or mcip.nc|no, but used if available|
|CLAY_PX|clay from PX LSM|1|XYT|METCRO2D or mcip.nc|no, but used if available|
|CSAND_PX|coarse sand from PX LSM|1|XYT|METCRO2D or mcip.nc|no, but used if available|
|FMSAND_PX|fine-medium sand from PX LSM|1|XYT|METCRO2D or mcip.nc|no, but used if available|
|JACOBF|total Jacobian at layer face|m|XYZT|METCRO3D and METBDY3D, or mcip.nc and mcip_bdy.nc|yes|
|JACOBM|total Jacobian at layer middle|m|XYZT|METCRO3D and METBDY3D, or mcip.nc and mcip_bdy.nc|yes|
|DENSA_J|Jacobian-weighted total air density|kg m<sup>-2</sup>|XYZT|METCRO3D and METBDY3D, or mcip.nc and mcip_bdy.nc|yes|
|WHAT_JD|Jacobian- and density-weighted vertical contravariant velocity|kg m<sup>-1</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>|XYZT|METCRO3D and METBDY3D, or mcip.nc and mcip_bdy.nc|yes|
|TA| air temperature|K|XYZT|METCRO3D and METBDY3D, or mcip.nc and mcip_bdy.nc|yes|
|QV| water vapor mixing ratio|kg kg<sup>-1</sup>|XYZT|METCRO3D and METBDY3D, or mcip.nc and mcip_bdy.nc|yes|
|PRES| air pressure|Pa|XYZT|METCRO3D and METBDY3D, or mcip.nc and mcip_bdy.nc|yes|
|DENS| air density|kg m<sup>-3</sup>|XYZT|METCRO3D and METBDY3D, or mcip.nc and mcip_bdy.nc|yes|
|WWIND| vertical velocity|m s<sup>-1</sup>|XYZT|METCRO3D and METBDY3D, or mcip.nc and mcip_bdy.nc|yes|
|ZH|mid-layer height above ground|m|XYZT|METCRO3D and METBDY3D, or mcip.nc and mcip_bdy.nc|yes|
|ZF|full layer height above ground|m|XYZT|METCRO3D and METBDY3D, or mcip.nc and mcip_bdy.nc|yes|
|TKE|turbulent kinetic energy|J kg<sup>-1</sup>|XYZT|METCRO3D and METBDY3D, or mcip.nc and met_bdy.nc|no|
|PV|potential vorticity|m<sup>2</sup> K kg<sup>-1</sup> s<sup>-1</sup> x 10<sup>-6</sup>|XYZT|METCRO3D and METBDY3D, or mcip.nc and mcip_bdy.nc|no, but required for PV scaling|
|WWIND|vertical velocity|m s<sup>-1</sup>|XYZT|METCRO3D and METBDY3D, or mcip.nc and mcip_bdy.nc|no|
|CFRAC_3D|3D resolved cloud fraction|1|XYZT|METCRO3D and METBDY3D, or mcip.nc and mcip_bdy.nc|no, but used if available|
|QC|cloud water mixing ratio|kg kg<sup>-1</sup>|XYZT|METCRO3D and METBDY3D, or mcip.nc and mcip_bdy.nc|yes|
|QR|rain water mixing ratio|kg kg<sup>-1</sup>|XYZT|METCRO3D and METBDY3D, or mcip.nc and mcip_bdy.nc|yes|
|QI|ice mixing ratio|kg kg<sup>-1</sup>|XYZT|METCRO3D and METBDY3D, or mcip.nc and mcip_bdy.nc|no, but used if available|
|QS|snow mixing ratio|kg kg<sup>-1</sup>|XYZT|METCRO3D and METBDY3D, or mcip.nc and mcip_bdy.nc|no, but used if available|
|QG|graupel mixing ratio|kg kg<sup>-1</sup>|XYZT|METCRO3D and METBDY3D, or mcip.nc and met_bdy.nc|no, but used if available|
|UWIND|u-component of horizontal wind (cell corners)|m s<sup>-1</sup>|XYZT|METDOT3D or mcip.nc|no|
|VWIND|v-component of horizontal wind (cell corners)|m s<sup>-1</sup>|XYZT|METDOT3D or mcip.nc|no|
|UHAT_JD|contravariant-U*Jacobian*density|kg m<sup>-1</sup> s<sup>-1</sup> [cell faces; Arakawa-C grid]|XYZT|METDOT3D or mcip.nc|yes|
|VHAT_JD|contravariant-V*Jacobian*density|kg m<sup>-1</sup> s<sup>-1</sup> [cell faces; Arakawa-C grid]|XYZT|METDOT3D or mcip.nc|yes|
|UWINDC|u-component of horizontal wind (west-east cell faces)|m s<sup>-1</sup>|XYZT|METDOT3D or mcip.nc|yes|
|VWINDC|v-component of horizontal wind (south-north cell faces)|m s<sup>-1</sup>|XYZT|METDOT3D or mcip.nc|yes|
|SOIT3D|soil temperature|K|XYST|SOICRO or mcip.nc|yes|
|SOIM3D|soil moisture|kg kg<sup>-1</sup>|XYST|SOICRO or mcip.nc|yes|
|LUFRAC2|fractional land use in mosaic categories|1|XYM|MOSAICCRO or mcip.nc|no, but can be used with STAGE deposition|
|MOSCAT|mosaic land use categories|1|XYM|MOSAICCRO or mcip.nc|no, but can be used with STAGE deposition|
|LAI_MOS|leaf area index (by mosaic categories)|m<sup>2</sup> m<sup>-2</sup>|XYMT|MOSAICCRO or mcip.nc|no, but can be used with STAGE deposition|
|RAI_MOS|inverse of aerodynamic resistance (by mosaic categories)|m s<sup>-1</sup>|XYMT|MOSAICCRO or mcip.nc|no, but can be used with STAGE deposition|
|RSI_MOS|inverse of stomatal resistance (by mosaic categories)|m s<sup>-1</sup>|XYMT|MOSAICCRO or mcip.nc|no, but can be used with STAGE deposition|
|TSK_MOS|skin temperature (by mosaic categories)|K|XYMT|MOSCRO or mcip.nc|no, but can be used with STAGE deposition|
|ZNT_MOS|roughness length (by mosaic categories)|m|XYMT|MOSCRO or mcip.nc|no, but can be used with STAGE deposition|



## Emissions Inputs
<a id=emis_xxx></a>

### EMIS_XXX: Emissions
[Return to Table 4-1](#emis_xxx_t)

Used by: CCTM

CMAQ may accept emissions inputs from a variety of emissions models and preprocessors, as long as the input files created are compatible with IOAPI format. The most commonly used software for preparing emissions inputs is the Sparse Matrix Operator Kernel Emissions (SMOKE) modeling system, which is a collection of programs that separately process and merge emissions data for each emissions stream for input to air quality models.

The emissions file provides primary pollutant emission rates by model grid cell and time. The file type is GRDDED3, and the units are in moles per second (moles s<sup>-1</sup>) for gas-phase species and grams per second (g s<sup>-1</sup>) for aerosol species. The file data are looped as follows: by column, by row, by layer, by variable, and by input time step. Elevated source emission rates may be provided to CCTM as vertically resolved emissions if the EMIS_XXX file is 3D. The gridded emissions files should be assigned three-digit numeric suffixes to identify them. This suffix is used to link the emission filename to user-defined stream labels and other options (e.g. GR_EMIS_LAB_XXX, GR_EM_DTOVRD_XXX). 

**>> Comment <<** DW: Will these GR_EMIS_LAB_XXX and GR_EM_DTOVRD_XXX be described some where in the user guide?

Starting in CMAQv5.3, users can run with as many gridded emission files as desired, including zero files. Make sure the N_EMIS_GR runtime variable is set to reflect the number of gridded emission files.

<a id=stk_grps></a>

### STK_GRPS_XXX: Stack groups
[Return to Table 4-1](#stk_grps_t)

Used by: CCTM – in-line emissions version only

The XXX mark is unique and represents the stream identification. Make sure the N_EMIS_PT runtime variable is set to reflect the total number of in-line emission streams.

The stack groups file is an IOAPI file containing stack parameters for elevated sources. This file can be created using the SMOKE program ELEVPOINT. For additional information about creating the stack groups file, see the [ELEVPOINT documentation](https://www.cmascenter.org/smoke/documentation/4.0/html/ch06s03.html) in the SMOKE user’s manual.

<a id=stk_emis></a>

### STK_EMIS_XXX: Point source emissions
[Return to Table 4-1](#stk_emis_t)

Used by: CCTM – inline emissions version only

The XXX mark is unique and represents the stream identification. Make sure the N_EMIS_PT runtime variable is set to reflect the total number of in-line emission streams.

The elevated-point-source emissions file is an IOAPI GRDDED3 file with emissions for point sources to be treated as elevated sources by CCTM. The emissions in this file are distributed through the vertical model layers using a plume-rise algorithm contained in CCTM. The elevated-point-source emissions file can be creating using SMOKE. For additional information about preparing point-source emissions for using the CMAQ in-line plume rise calculation, see the [ELEVPOINT documentation](https://www.cmascenter.org/smoke/documentation/4.0/html/ch06s03.html) in the SMOKE user’s manual.

<a id=nldn_strikes></a>

### NLDN_STRIKES: Hourly observed lightning strikes
[Return to Table 4-1](#nldn_strikes_t)

Used by: CCTM – lightning NO<sub>x</sub> version only

The NLDN lightning strikes file is used for calculating in-line NO emissions from hourly observed strike counts. This file contains the following variables interpolated to the modeling grid:

 **Table 4-4**

|**Variable Name**|**Description**|**Units**|**Required**|
 |--------|-------------------|--------------|-----------|
 |NLDNstrk|hourly flash counts per sq. km.|(km-2)||

<a id=ltngparm_file></a>

### LTNGPARMS_FILE: Lightning parameters file
[Return to Table 4-1](#ltngparm_file_t)

Used by: CCTM – lightning NO<sub>x</sub> version only

The lightning parameters file is used for calculating in-line NO emissions from hourly observed strike counts. 
This file can be downloaded from the [CMAS Data Warehouse](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1R8ENVSpQiv4Bt4S0LFuUZWFzr3-jPEeY). 

This file contains the following variables interpolated to the modeling grid:

**Table 4-5**

|**Variable Name**|**Description**|**Units**|**Required**|
|--------|---------------|--------------|-----------|
| SLOPE|linear equation parameter for estimating NO emissions from hourly flash counts|unitless||
|INTERCEPT| linear equation parameter for estimating NO emissions from hourly flash counts|||
|SLOPE_lg| logarithmic equation parameter for estimating NO emissions from hourly flash counts|||
|INTERCEPT_lg| logarithmic equation parameter for estimating NO emissions from hourly flash counts|||
|ICCG_SUM| Ratio of intercloud to cloud-to-ground flashes during the summer season|unitless||
|ICCG_WIN| Ratio of intercloud to cloud-to-ground flashes during the winter season|unitless||
|OCNMASK| Land/water mask to remove spurious flashes over the ocean|unitless||

## Biogenic and Land Surface Inputs
<a id=ocean_1></a>
### OCEAN_1: Sea spray mask
[Return to Table 4-1](#ocean_1_t)

Used by: CCTM

The CMAQ aerosol models AERO5 and AERO6 can compute sea spray emissions from both open ocean grid cells and surf zone grid cells. The addition of the surf zone option simulates the elevated emissions rates of sea salt in coastal regions where wave action occurs. The OCEAN_1 file contains data on the fraction of each grid cell that is either open ocean (OPEN) or in the surf zone (SURF). When CCTM is compiled with AERO5 or AERO6, it will expect the OCEAN_1 file as input.

See the [CMAQ Ocean File Tutorial](Tutorials/CMAQ_UG_tutorial_oceanfile.md) for step by step instructions on creating this file. 

<a id=gspro></a>
### GSPRO: Speciation profiles
[Return to Table 4-1](#gspro_t)

Used by: CCTM – inline emissions version only

The speciation profile file, GSPRO, contains the factors that are used to separate aggregated inventory pollutant emissions totals into emissions of model species in the form required by CMAQ. If only biogenic emissions are being calculated in-line in CMAQ, the GSPRO file used by CCTM needs to contain split factors only for the biogenic VOC emissions that are input in the B3GRD file. If other emissions sources are being calculated by CCTM, VOC split factors for these other sources must be included in the GSPRO file. The GSPRO file format is listed in the SMOKE user’s manual, see: [GSPRO documentation](https://www.cmascenter.org/smoke/documentation/4.0/html/ch08s05s02.html).

<a id=b3grd></a>
### B3GRD: Gridded, normalized biogenic emissions
[Return to Table 4-1](#b3grd_t)

Used by: CCTM – inline-emissions version only

An I/O API GRDDED3 file of gridded, normalized biogenic emissions (in grams of carbon or nitrogen per hour, depending on the species) and leaf area index. The B3GRD file contains normalized emissions calculated with both summer and winter emissions factors. The B3GRD file is generated with the SMOKE program NORMBEIS3 using gridded land use data. For additional information about creating the B3GRD file, see the [NORMBEIS3 documentation](https://www.cmascenter.org/smoke/documentation/4.0/html/ch06s12.html) in the SMOKE users’ manual.

<a id=bioseason></a>
### BIOSEASON: Freeze dates
[Return to Table 4-1](#bioseason_t)

Used by: CCTM – inline-emissions version only

The BIOSEASON switch file is an I/O API GRDDED3 file used to indicate which biogenic emissions factor to use on each day in a given year for every grid cell in the modeling domain. This file can be created using the Metscan utility program that is distributed with SMOKE. The BIOSEASON file is time-dependent and usually contains data for an entire year (365 or 366 days). It uses one variable, SEASON, which is either 0 (grid cell should use winter factors for current day) or 1 (grid cell should use summer factors for current day). For additional information about creating the BIOSEASON file, see the [Metscan documentation](https://www.cmascenter.org/smoke/documentation/4.0/html/ch05s03s10.html) in the SMOKE user’s manual.

<a id=e2c_lu></a>
### E2C_LU – Fractional crop distributions
[Return to Table 4-1](#e2c_lu_t)

Used by: CCTM – bidirectional NH<sub>3</sub> flux version only

Land use data including fractional crop and tree distributions gridded to the modeling domain.  This data set is created when generating the land use data for EPIC simulations over the conterminous U.S. domain by the BELD4 Data Generation tool in the FEST-C interface.  Detailed information on the tool and FEST-C interface are available at https://www.cmascenter.org/fest-c/. 


<a id="e2c_soil"></a>
### E2C_SOIL – EPIC soil properties
[Return to Table 4-1](#e2c_soil_t)

Used by: CCTM – bidirectional NH<sub>3</sub> flux version only

This 3-D file is created by the EPIC to CMAQ tool via the FEST-C interface.  It contains soil properties for Layer 1 (0 to 1 cm depth) and Layer 2 (1 cm to 100 cm depth) and for each crop in grid cells with agricultural land.  Additional information on the EPIC simulation and the FEST-C interface are available at https://www.cmascenter.org/fest-c/. 

<a id="e2c_chem"></a>
### E2C_CHEM – EPIC crop types and fertilizer application
[Return to Table 4-1](#e2c_chem_t)

Used by: CCTM – bidirectional NH<sub>3</sub> flux version only

This is a 3-D daily file created by the EPIC to CMAQ tool via the FEST-C interface.  The tool extracts EPIC simulated soil chemistry information including fertilization for the Layer 1 and Layer 2 soil profiles along with plant growth information in each grid cell with agricultural land.  The FEST-C interface facilitates EPIC simulations for any CMAQ modeling domain over the conterminous U.S. area.  Additional information on the EPIC simulation and the FEST-C interface are available at https://www.cmascenter.org/fest-c/. 

## Photolysis
<a id=omi></a>
### OMI: Ozone Monitoring Instrument Column Data
[Return to Table 4-1](#omi_t)

Used by: CCTM

OMI ozone column data by latitude and longitude for use in the inline photolysis calculations. CMAQ is distributed with ozone columns from 1978 to 2017 (CCTM/src/phot/inline/OMI_1979_to_2017.dat). The data are 22.5°x10° gridded ozone columns in Dobson units. The [create_omi](../../PREP/create_omi/README.md) tool under the PREP folder can be used to create a data file to support simulations after 2017 or a data file with a finer spatial resolution.


 [<< Previous Chapter](CMAQ_UG_ch03_preparing_compute_environment.md) - [Home](README.md) - [Next Chapter >>](CMAQ_UG_ch05_running_a_simulation.md)
 
 CMAQ User's Guide (c) 2019<br>

<!-- END COMMENT -->
